The markets are wagging the economy, not
the other way around.
>> of the opportunity here is really in the
AI compute space.
>> As long as the capital markets remain
open to these really massive market
caps, that's the opportunity.
>> This is really, I think, an
earnings-driven story.
>> It could be more choppy this summer, but
we don't think that the bull market in
equities is over.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Annmarie Hordern.
>> [music]
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, tech stocks decline,
extending losses following wild swings
for high-flying chip stocks as a
record-breaking SpaceX IPO is reportedly
four times oversubscribed. Investors are
bracing for a hawkish Fed heading into
the next read on inflation. CPI
>> [music]
>> expected to hit fresh multi-year highs.
>> There is so much money slashing around
in capital markets. You see companies
that are spending and spending, and they
have the money to spend. They are
raising money, and people want [music]
to give them money to spend. How much of
it is bleeding into the increase in
consumer prices that everyone is
feeling, and that's what we're going to
see today at 8:30 a.m. The potential for
a north of 4% CPI [music] year-over-year
would put it at the highest level going
back to 2023
as we see components and energy costs
for everything rising.
>> So, we haven't had a full handle for 3
years. Just think about that. Where was
Fed funds 3 years ago? 5 handle. Right
now, 375. How much work does this Fed
have to do later this year?
>> In 2023, [music] the Fed was hiking
rates. At that point, people thought
that they were on a rate hiking cycle,
and they expected this to cause pain.
Remember the pain speech? [music] Well,
now we're in a situation where people
are still pricing in potentially, not
pricing in. We're pricing in one rate
hike by the end of this year, but the
talk of on a Wall Street is still of the
potential for a rate cut [music] even as
you see a re-acceleration of inflation.
And I will tell you, down on the beaches
of Rio, when I was talking to different
CEOs, all I can say
>> [laughter]
>> all I can say is everyone was talking
about how demand is absolutely surging
[music] regardless of higher prices.
>> Okay, well I wasn't on the beaches of
Rio, but I was at the Knicks game, which
in itself is a is is is basically
highlighting inflation. I think it's
particular to New York City, but
obviously highlighting inflation. When
you look at what Bloomberg Economics
>> [music]
>> is talking about, they're saying that
core inflation now, which is more
relative to the Fed funds rate, actually
they expect [music] a subdued reading
because people are paying up a lot more
for things like gasoline, which is going
to be part of this hot CPI [music]
print, and potentially taking away from
other parts of the basket.
>> for something to throw around the table.
I know I'm going to be fired. Right, I'm
just looking around. I can't find
anything right now.
>> I came in and rearranged your set up so
that you couldn't throw anything at me
this morning.
>> in the commercial break. Let's turn
[music] to crude. Brent WTI looks like
this. It's pulling back, but down by a
tenth of 1%. Such an unusual week for
the energy market. It's been an unusual
year. Brent crude on Monday topped in
98, down to 91. We've got an 88 handle
on WTI. [music] Yet we've got every
single reason in the last week to expect
crude prices to be higher.
>> And we had one last night. You have the
US carrying out three waves [music] of
strikes against 20 IRGC targets. This is
a retaliation of Iran downing a US
helicopter. I was with the president
right after the Knicks game when before
we went back to Washington DC. We asked
him about this and he said there's going
to be a report [music] that comes out
Tuesday. Well, it wasn't a report. It
was a response to Iran and still oil is
lower. And a lot more barrels are coming
out [music] than people had expected,
whether it's Adnoc, whether it's now
that Kuwait is able to get some barrels
to Asia. It's just hard to really
understand that all of this is going on
while the strike continues to be closed.
>> Jeff Currie of [music] Carlyle put out
another piece essentially saying you
guys are all crazy. And he said we're
robbing Peter to pay Paul. Essentially
we are flooding the market with all of
this oil, whether it's the SPR, etc. And
then keeping demand high so that you
don't get the corrective mechanism that
you need to really right-size the
situation, [music]
which is why he thinks we have a couple
weeks left before we hit tank bottoms
and all hell breaks loose and that's
essentially the reason why he is
incredibly bullish on commodities.
>> I T I as it stands won't crush demand,
not stateside, that's for sure, given
the performance of this economy so far.
Brent crude at 91. Coming up this hour,
Steve on the Fed rate situation as tech
stocks retreat, Stephen of the Council
on Foreign Relations as the US and Iran
trade fresh strikes, and Veronica Clark
of Citi suggesting rate cuts are more
likely than hikes. We begin this hour
with stocks extending losses following a
very volatile session. Steve
of Federated calling it the storm before
the calm, writing, "To be clear, we
would see any volatility as a buying
opportunity." Steve joins us now for
more. Steve, good morning. Good to see
you.
>> What do you think is behind the latest
fragility, the latest wild swings for
tech stocks?
>> Yeah, let me let me just say I'm not
coming from either Rio or courtside of
the Knicks game. I'm fresh off the New
Jersey Turnpike,
>> [laughter]
>> um where our traffic has been insane
coming into the city, which I say think
uh a sign of actually strong consumer
demand. But,
look, I I think there are a lot of
non-fundamental factors that are going
to interfere with markets and cause
volatility over the summer. People need
to make room in their portfolios for all
the equity capital that's being raised,
including SpaceX.
Pension funds and kind of investors that
are targeting allocations, equities have
run so hard over the last quarter, fixed
income has struggled so much that
there's going to be a rebalancing trade
very likely that I think will interfere
with markets.
Inflation, I think today's inflation
report is going to mark the worst of the
worst. This is going to be the biggest
jump on a month-over-month. I think we
kind of stabilize from here.
>> You think this is the peak?
>> I Well, I don't not necessarily the
peak. You could get a a report that's
hotter, but the jump, I think we're
going to go from, you know, 3.8 to 4.2
likely today. I think that's the biggest
jump. So, after this report, I think
things will get bad at a less bad rate,
which is usually what markets look to to
have an inflection point. You've got
uncertainty around the midterms that'll
start to come in the country. have and
then you have a new Fed chair, that
that's going to get challenged. So, I
think you could see volatility over the
course of the summer.
Our anchoring point though is that we
still sit in what is at worst the middle
of the biggest infrastructure build-out
since the railroads, and margins that
are growing at the fastest pace in my
lifetime, and it's not as short as it
was, you can see from the gray hairs.
So, we want to own that, and if we see
volatility on some of these
non-fundamental factors, we're likely to
buy it.
>> On network price. And this is the key
issue, because everybody has their hand
out. Everybody wants to raise money, and
the sums of money are getting bigger and
bigger to pay for higher and higher cost
items, because inflation is going up as
quickly as people can raise money to pay
it.
>> I think prices are up. I don't think
inflation is in place. And I think that
that's a key element. I don't think what
we have is a self-reinforcing upward
cycle in prices. And the reason I don't
think we have that is we don't see it in
wage gains, which are still pretty
modest at 3 and 1/2%.
And what you're seeing is pockets of
weakness in parts of the consumer basket
that's offsetting the strength that you
see in energy commodities. What we have
is a Strait of Hormuz that's closed. And
if energy's not flowing, prices are
going to be higher. But what we don't
have that we had in kind of '22 and '23
was just more and more money getting
pumped into the system, whether it was
through government stimulus or rates
that are zero. And so, I think what
you're going to see is on a
year-over-year basis
the biggest jump, this kind of 4%
number. And then I think we'll see a
string of 4% numbers. But then all of a
sudden, when you get to the back half of
the year, you've lapped the tariffs.
Even if energy prices stay exactly where
they are, once you get to next March,
energy inflation is zero at that point,
right? So,
and I think what we're likely to see is
energy prices that ease some, not
necessarily go back to where they were
pre-conflict, but ease some. So, I I
think we have higher prices. I think
it's hurting some people, but I don't
think that this is that self-reinforcing
inflation cycle.
>> take issue with one thing, and this is
something that I was hearing from a lot
of people lately. That that's kind of
what we do here.
You're off to a fantastic vacation next
week, So, don't exactly cry me a river.
We've had our experiences. So, you know,
let's not go there. But, I will say
one thing that as I was talking to
different CEOs, they're talking about
how much money they have and that their
margins have been increasing, not
decreasing. And you said that fiscal
isn't necessarily coming in the same way
that it did during the pandemic. Maybe
so, but you're getting tax breaks that
are giving them a lot of cash. At what
point will companies have to raise wages
in a commensurate way because they have
so much money, they need to build their
business, they're all investing in
capex? I mean, why isn't that a likely
outcome?
>> So, let's talk about the margins first.
Um
and this is really important because in
a high inflation environment, usually
stocks don't do as well as they do in a
low inflationary environment unless
earnings are growing above trend. And
they do particularly well when margins
are growing. So, what what the history
shows is that stocks can do as well in a
high inflation environment as they do in
a low inflation environment if margins
are growing.
And that's why you see the stock market
as resilient as it is. As it relates to
wages, wages are growing. They're
growing at about 3 and 1/2% and that's
about where you want it, right? When it
gets over four, that generally becomes a
self-sustaining kind of problem. That's
2022. 3 and 1/2% with inflation kind of
around three, let's say that's been the
average, that's real wage growth. And
again, that's very different than what
we were seeing with the inflation of
'22, '23 when we had a record period of
negative real wage growth for the
consumer. So, the consumer here, and I
think this is the biggest contrarian
call. We all know how difficult the
consumer's been, how K-shaped it's been,
but look at the bottom part of the K.
All of a sudden, instead of adding
10,000 jobs a month, we're adding
180,000 jobs a month. And the biggest
decline in the unemployment rate so far
this year is folks some college degree,
high school diploma, less than a high
school diploma. I think that bottom part
of the K is set to do a little bit
better than what we've seen over the
last year.
>> Steve, what do you what do you think the
Fed does next week with all of this?
>> I I think you're going to see the Fed
likely on hold. I what I expect to hear
from Warsh is how he's going to look at
things. He's not going to come out and
say, "Hey, we're not hiking or we're
hiking." I think he's going to maybe
reiterate that he's going to look at
trim trim mean measures of inflation. I
think he's going to lay out a framework
or a series of breadcrumbs that will
communicate to the market that this
Fed's not going to hike. I I mean, I
really think that that
>> Not going to hike this year.
>> Because here here's why.
What is it going to do? The parts of the
economy that are rate sensitive have
already been in a recession. That's been
what we've talked about around this
table. So, are we going to punish the
low-end consumer more? Are we going to
punish small businesses more? Because
I you can raise rates all you want. It's
not lowering a chip price. It's not
lowering the price of a gas turbine cuz
the buyers don't need debt,
and they're price insensitive. So, what
you don't want to do is hike rates and
destroy those interest rate sensitive
parts of the market so that if AI CapEx
slows down, you find yourself in a
negative cycle. So, I think this Fed
will understand that. I hope that
they'll understand that. I think it'd be
a real policy error to get too
aggressive on this.
>> So, you're looking for something dovish
relative to more hawkish expectations.
>> I I'm I'm expecting him to Yeah, drop
some breadcrumbs. And the breadcrumbs
would be things like, "I'm going to
focus on trim mean inflation." We're
going to trim
>> we?
>> What's that?
>> I'm going to or we're going to?
>> That's the question, right? Because he
does have the hardest management role, I
think, of any Fed chair in a while,
particularly with his predecessor
sitting there apparently keeping a low
profile, but then giving speeches that
aren't so low profile. So,
we're going to we're going to see. We've
always assumed
that even though it's a committee, the
Fed chair sets the direction.
I would expect that Warsh, being well
prepared and very interested in this job
for a long time, will be able to
navigate that.
We will see if it really is a committee.
Um
Strap in.
>> He's had 10 years to think about it,
that's for sure.
>> He's He's very well prepared for this
job.
>> Without a doubt. Steve, you wear the New
Jersey sun well. It's good to see you.
>> Thank you, Steve. Steve Shephard of
Federated. Who needs a vacation? Who
needs to re- [laughter] and freshen up?
>> Okay, this is John's take. This is
John's take after I went to Rio and we
went to the next game. John's like, "Who
needs to go on vacation?"
>> 10 and rested already.
Right?
>> Yeah, if you spend a lot of time on the,
you know, soccer field.
>> It's that Italian blood. Let's give you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg Brief.
Vonnie Quinn has more. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. US forces
carrying out fresh strikes against Iran,
targeting air defense and surveillance
sites near the Strait of Hormuz
yesterday afternoon.
>> [music]
>> The attacks coming after President Trump
blamed Tehran for shooting down an
American military helicopter on Monday.
Bank of Japan Governor Kazuo Ueda has
been hospitalized and is set to miss
next week's monetary policy meeting. The
BOJ writing in a statement, quote, "His
hospital stay is expected to last
approximately 2 weeks." The deputy
governor will serve as acting chair for
the meeting.
TSMC reporting a 30% rise in its monthly
sales.
>> [music]
>> The increase reflecting continued
strength in demand spurred by a global
rush to build AI infrastructure.
>> [music]
>> Asia's largest company has become an
essential global AI player by making
cutting-edge semiconductors for
companies including Nvidia and [music]
AMD. And that is your Bloomberg Brief,
John.
>> Hey, Vonnie. Thank you. Thank you for
the update. More from Vonnie later this
hour. Up next on the program, a
ceasefire on the brink.
>> I would say the ceasefire is on massive
life support.
>> What?
>> Yeah, that part of the world, ceasefire
is when you shooting in a more moderate
manner. We're going to win one way or
the other. It's going to be militarily
or on paper.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Steven Cook
of the Council on Foreign Relations.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good [music] morning.
>> Inflation data later this morning CPI
8:30 Eastern time ahead of PPI
>> [music]
>> later on this week. The guess is the
estimates in our survey look like this.
The media for year-over-year CPI could
have a four handle for the first time in
three years. The estimate 4.2% that's up
from 3.8 [music] expecting core to hold
steady just about just below 3% heading
into the Fed meeting a week [music]
today. The first meeting for Kevin
Warsh, the new Fed chair. Into that
really volatile price action for equity
markets [music] stateside. Equity
futures this morning declining by 0.8%.
The losses continue on the Nasdaq up
down by 1.2% [music]
after bouncing on Monday taking it all
back on Tuesday and then adding to
losses this morning. That's the stock
picture. Here's the bond [music] market.
2s, 10s, 30s look like this. 2s are
4.13% yields creeping higher again by
single basis points. 10s around 4.53%
off the back of some jitters in the
commodity market. WTI and Brent shaping
up as follows even with the tension in
the Middle East. Look at this. 88 handle
on WTI, [music]
on Brent and unchanged on the session.
When I saw the headline drop yesterday,
I was like, "Oh, here we go."
Crude might wake up.
>> Yeah.
>> Crude didn't wake up at all.
>> It wake up woke up for a hot second. It
was sort of up for 4% and then it went
right back down. And ultimately people
are looking through this and saying that
[music] the fact that the ceasefire is
being preserved in any capacity
whatsoever with them lobbing missiles at
each other and blowing things up seems a
little bit ridiculous. And that gives
you a sense of what the desire here is,
which is to [music] stop the kinetic
conflict and to get the Strait of Hormuz
back open.
>> Crude rolled over and went back to sleep
since the last 24 hours. On the
Savannah's this morning, a ceasefire on
the brink.
>> I would say the ceasefire is on massive
life support. If there's no ceasefire,
you're not going to have to know. You're
just going to have to look at one big
glow coming out of Iran.
>> In that part of the world, ceasefires
when you're shooting in a more moderate
manner. There's a reason for everything.
And we hit them pretty hard. We're going
to win one way or the other. It's going
to be militarily or on paper.
>> [music]
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
US and Iran exchanging fresh strikes
after Tehran downed a US Apache
helicopter, further straining the
fragile ceasefire. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us for the latest. Good
morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, this
underscores just how high the tensions
are running as this week marks the worst
flare-up in fighting since the ceasefire
was announced. CENTCOM says that the US
response yesterday was proportionate and
done in self-defense with the US
striking Iranian military targets
including radar sites, command and
control stations, and air defense
systems for Iran near the Strait of
Hormuz. It comes after yesterday we
heard from Iran's foreign minister in a
post on X who didn't deny that Iranian
forces were involved in the downing of
this American military helicopter, but
seemed to suggest that perhaps the
incident was unintentional. In the wake
of the US's strikes, we heard from
Iranian state media overnight confirming
that the IRGC tried to target at least
four American military targets including
the US's main naval base in Bahrain.
Now, President Trump was asked over the
weekend and pressed on it really in this
interview with NBC News on what his red
lines would be in order to end the
ceasefire. He said if Americans were
killed or if he feels that a deal could
not be reached. Because at this point,
despite all the escalation, the White
House still says that diplomacy is a
viable option and a person familiar with
the matter confirms to Bloomberg News
that the negotiations are ongoing this
week with Pakistan as the main mediator.
In fact, John, we got some new reporting
from The New York Times yesterday that
put a little bit more of a finer point
on where these talks may be headed
reporting that the two sides appear to
be closing in on four main issues
related to Iran's nuclear program. That
includes the potential for a lengthy
moratorium on uranium enrichment, which
the Times is reporting the US feels
could land at 15 years.
>> We'll see. Tan Kanda with the latest
down in Washington. Tan, I thank you. To
build on that, Steven Cook of the
Council on Foreign Relations writes the
following. Markets seem to be waking up
to the fact that the Strait of Hormuz is
not opening anytime soon. Steven joins
us now for more. Steve, welcome back to
the show. The president looks committed
to finding the off-ramp. The Iranians
look committed to testing his patience.
And I just wonder, Steven, how long we
can hold on to this ceasefire?
>> Yeah, the president has indicated over
and over again that he's unwilling to
escalate.
The CENTCOM's response to the downing of
the helicopter yesterday was essentially
pinprick. We're talking about radar
sites,
a number of facilities along the Strait
of Hormuz, which have been hit before.
The Iranians just move these things back
underground and then bring them back up
when they are going to use them again.
This is not a return to combat, and the
president has indicated over and over
again to the Iranians that he's not
interested in that. That has given them
license to actually make more demands
and be more aggressive in the region.
They're now trying to fold Israel and
Lebanon firmly into any agreement so
that they have some sort of control
over Israeli security.
>> Steven, what do you think the sticking
points are right now in terms of the
discussions between Washington and Iran?
>> I think the sticking points remain what
they have been. The question of Iran's
uranium enrichment. If the New York
Times is right, we're basically going
back to where we were with the JCPOA,
President Obama's agreement with the
Iranians over a moratorium on the
nuclear program back in 2015. Then, of
course, there is this issue of the
Strait of Hormuz. Those help that
helicopter that was shot down was
patrolling the strait
while the Iranians were shooting drones
at commercial shipping that is using a
lane of the strait that the US is
assisting with. Um the Iranians have no
intention of uh opening this strait
without having some sort of control over
it. And those are what the sticking
points were on April 8th, and they're
the sticking points today on June 10th.
>> But the goalposts continue to change.
Earlier on the
uh conflict, the president said a
20-year ban um would be insufficient.
Now they're going to settle for 15.
>> He's clearly looking for that off-ramp.
Um he's frustrated. He said last week
that he was bored with these
negotiations. We could be approaching a
situation where uh the president
actually capitulates. Maybe uh maybe
it's not uh 20 years, 15 years, 22
years, whatever it is. It seems to me
he's looking for something that he can
sell, that he can get out. Uh it is uh
The Iranians, however, haven't been
willing to play ball and have remained
steadfast in their demands that they
have a right to enrich uranium, and that
they want some control over the Strait
of Hormuz.
>> Steven, you wrote that the market seems
to be waking up to the fact that the
Strait of Hormuz isn't reopening anytime
soon. Is that true? Do you really think
that this market is uh waking up to that
reality?
>> Well, you all would know better than I
would, but it seems to me that over the
course of the last few days, the the
market slides um are
indicate that people are coming around
to the fact that there is a major choke
point in the global economy, and that
it's harder and harder for energy to
come out. As far as the oil markets go,
um there is a difference between the
market and the molecules, and we're
starting to see shorter inventories
uh in the in the oil market.
>> How has this complicated the
relationship of some of the Gulf nations
with the United States in terms of what
they're looking for and how much this
potentially impedes some of their
ambitions to become global business
centers?
>> Yeah, I think there's there's two things
that uh are of great concern to the our
Gulf partners. One is that the president
grows frustrated, declares victory, and
goes home, and leaves them with a mess
that's not of their own making and
something that they didn't want.
Uh it is a a major concern I've heard
from Saudis, I've heard from Emiratis,
I've heard from others that this is
something that the leadership and others
are very concerned about. And then there
is the question of whether the Gulf
model of development uh can continue as
it had. The idea being that this is a
safe, stable, secure place in which to
invest to establish data centers. Right
now, though all of those things are
questionable, although the market, once
again, people seem to continue to
believe that um these places are, over
the long term, places that um can be
part critical parts of the global
economy.
>> Steve, there's a whole industry
dedicated to criticizing the president.
This is not actually a criticism, it's
just an observation. This is very
off-brand for the president when it
comes to geopolitics. This whole
adventure has been very off-brand. And I
would suggest even the last week has
been very off-brand. This is an
administration that has claimed to
pursue peace through strength and
criticized the previous administration
for not showing American military might
in securing peace through those means.
And yet, Steve, this is looking more and
more like what we saw under Biden,
particularly the last week, letting
these kind of things go. Steve, what's
behind the change?
>> Yeah, this is a rather extraordinary
change for the president. He was in the
Gulf just a year ago, and he said things
that are diametrically opposed to what
he in fact is doing.
Just the investment in the region, the
military investment, the the all of that
is counter to everything that he said
when he was in Riyadh last May. Um and
then now, where he is let willing to let
things go. It is one thing for the
president to suggest, "Well, you know,
the Iranians attacking are below the
threshold of ceasefire." But when it
comes to the Strait of Hormuz, on a
daily basis, the Iranians are trying to
prevent commercial shipping from going
through the lane in which the United
States is committed to assist
uh, commercial shipping traversing that
that waterway.
That it the fact that we haven't
responded to that does not suggest peace
through strength.
>> Steven Cook, it's good to see you, sir.
Thank you. Steven Cook there at the
Council on Foreign Relations. It's an
observation I think we're all paying
attention to the shift that we're
witnessing under this president.
>> The US right now is very much so on the
defensive. So they're responding to
attacks. They're not on the offensive
and making it clear that we will not be
tested yet again cuz we continue to see
these skirmishes happen between Iranian
forces, IRGC, and the US, and especially
our allies like Kuwait and Bahrain that
have been really under intense fire and
pressure from the regime.
>> Crude just about unchanged off the back
of this mess at the moment, which is
unbelievable. The price action this
morning, the fireworks in equities,
[music] tech stocks decline, and once
again, we're negative by 0.8% on the S&P
500 and down a whole lot more on the
Nasdaq. [music] On the Nasdaq, negative
1.2%. Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with Thoma Bravo co-founder
Orlando Bravo declaring [music] an end
to software AI disruption fears. Plus,
Shahira has your morning movers.
Supermicro joining the race to raise
[music] cash for AI spending. Check out
that move in the pre-market. The stock
is down 10%.
>> [music]
>> down by 1.6% and they want some really
really wild swings. [music] Check out
the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.
That particular index was down 8.6% at
the [music] lows and at the highs was up
2.8% so 10 percentage point range and to
your point Bremo, I know every single
morning you're looking at the same thing
I'm looking at which is South Korea and
the Kospi which is [music] pretty wild
in and of itself.
>> some of these losses have just been
shocking, right? We saw a more than 8%
move to get down on just one day. You
see this incredible volatility and you
start wondering [music] how much of
these leveraged funds that are getting
whipsawed by sentiment and trading
around the margins. What's fascinating
is yes, [music] you're seeing this
fragility and this increased volatility
but you're seeing a broadening out with
actual gains [music] for three quarters
of the stocks and you're seeing less
bond market volatility. So there's
something going on and no one can really
put their finger on what it is
>> [music]
>> that's creating this volatility in these
in these names.
>> Well, Steve Scheron touched on this a
little bit when it comes to this massive
amount [music] of tech equity issuance.
Potentially he says this could be the
case for selling pressure when it comes
to other areas in the market to make
sure they can loosen up their capital to
get in. Friday is going [music] to be a
massive deal for this equity market.
>> There is a record breaking mega IPO on
the horizon and in between that some
equity offerings for some single names
as well. So let's get into that. Let's
get you some single names the morning
movers. Yihai Yu Has more. Hi Yihai Yu.
>> Hi John, exactly. We start with that
one. We are seeing Super Micro down 10%
in the pre-market as it becomes the
latest company to join the party to
raise capital announcing a $7 billion uh
>> [music]
>> equity raise. Sales of its AI servers
have surged but that just means it needs
more money and more cash to fulfill some
$39 billion in orders. This follows a
period of significant cash burn for the
company as Super Micro has to spend
heavily upfront for chips and other
components which of course we know have
gotten pricier. Uh speaking of chips, we
are seeing um some signs on On from TSMC
reporting a 30% jump in sales for the
month of May. That is of course strong
but a bit weaker than Wall Street
expecting. Also uh hanging over the
stock is sentiment in the chip sector is
weaker again today with names like
Intel, AMD, Nvidia all lower coming
after the Philadelphia Semiconductor
Index as you mentioned uh ending the day
down 7% [music]
in yesterday's session. And we get the
next big test on the AI trade uh later
today when Oracle reports. Shares are
falling into that down some [music] 2.7%
and looking through analyst notes the
big question will be uh how quickly
Oracle is building data centers and
converting AI bookings into actual
revenue at a time when we know demand is
already strong. [music] So all about
execution here.
>> Yeah Hihara, thank you. Thank you for
the update. More from Hihara later on in
the program. [music]
On our radar this morning SpaceX drawing
tremendous investor demand ahead of its
maker IPO. Reuters is reporting the
offering is approaching four times
oversubscribed with over $250 billion
in orders. Elsewhere TSMC shares pulling
back the chip chart reporting a sharp
rise in monthly revenue. Asia's largest
company seeing a 30% rise in sales as AI
demand shows no signs of slowing and yet
here we are down by close to 3% and
finally check this one out. Apollo and
Blackstone finalizing a $35 billion
finance package for Anthropic to expand
its AI infrastructure. The deal will
fund Google's custom chips for Anthropic
to lease with Broadcom backstopping
payments on the larger senior portions
of the debt.
>> Things are getting creative in terms of
some of the structures and what pieces
people are picking off and how they're
backstopping some of their investments.
The numbers are getting bigger and
bigger. The players having to deploy
things. When you talk to someone like
from Apollo or Blackstone they talk
about trying to get security, having a
short duration piece maybe five years
etc. The numbers are just mind-boggling
though. I mean you start to look at some
of the circular financing you start
wondering how much everybody is just
hinging on each other's success. For
everybody to go up, you're seeing that
with respect to Google and what they're
doing with Anthropic. You're seeing this
across the board. Everyone is just
becoming completely intertwined and
hinged on this being a successful story.
>> That's the obvious criticism here, that
this looks circular, that it's
off-balance sheet debt with an IG
rating. Thank you, Broadcom. And if
you're not familiar with the structure
of this particular deal, there are three
tranches. The riskier piece of this,
you're compensated with extra yield, but
Anthropic's on the hook for everything.
The more senior portions of this debt,
you get the residual value of the chips.
If that's not enough, Broadcom steps in,
hence the IG rating on the more senior
level of the debt. Does it sound risky?
Does it sound creative? It sounds
creative, yes, but if you think back to
say the car business of the last 20, 30
years or whatever, take a GM, a Ford
financing the purchases of their
vehicles. So long as it's a small part
of the business and not a large chunk of
the business, and the argument I think
we'd hear this morning is that for
Broadcom, this is only a small part of
the business. More broadly though,
Graham, I think you're on exactly the
right point. We're seeing very creative
ways to raise more and more capital, and
not every company has very flexible
capital structures and the ability to do
an Alphabet say, "You know what, I'll go
to Canada. I'll go to Switzerland. I'll
go to the UK, and I'll borrow 40
billion, 60 billion dollars in over 4
months." Not everybody can do that. And
when you see the equity piece of this, I
actually find the story that Yih-Harng
talked about just moments ago, Super
Micro comes out looking to raise equity,
stock gets hammered. Meta talks about
raising equity, stock gets hammered just
on the report of that in the Financial
Times. Those are the things I'm focused
on. Is that pushback going to start to
build to the point that these companies
have to reconsider their plans?
>> How much are these companies increasing
their risk essentially if they're taking
down the riskiest part, if they're
taking down the leverage? If you aren't
necessarily accounting for the cost of
all of the purchases of the chips until
those chips are deployed, that is a
depreciating asset over time. How do you
calculate the risk that's building in
some of these companies with all of this
creative financing? That I think is the
increasing difficulty, and the fact that
they just keep needing to raise more and
more money. I mean really just a couple
a handful of names needing to raise more
than $600 billion of debt this year
gives you a sense of what we're talking
about here.
>> on these IPOs on the horizon and I get
it, they're all the headlines. I
understand that, but the amount of money
being made on the debt being made being
raised on the debt and equity side just
over the last 12 months has been
phenomenal.
>> And it's going to pay for prices that
keep going up. This is the key issue,
right? Prices go up so their capex has
to go up and then the prices go up
further and then their capex goes
further. And at what point are you
paying for the inflation that you're
seeing in all of these different
components?
>> Elsewhere private market deal makers
gathering at the annual SuperReturn
conference over in Germany, Danni Burger
focused on many of these issues. She
joins us now from Berlin. Hey Danni.
>> Hey John, that's correct. And there's
one issue I want to focus in on
particular and it is the state of
software and private equity and we have
the leading voice to talk about that. It
is Orlando Bravo, the co-founder of
Thoma Bravo. Orlando,
>> it's always a pleasure to see you here.
>> Danni, so good to see you. This is our
yearly tradition.
>> It is our yearly I would be gutted if we
didn't meet. Same place, same time every
single year.
>> the reasons I come here is to do this.
>> Okay, hopefully among the top. And I
know this year you have a particular
message. I remember earlier this year
you were talking at SaaStr saying the
SaaS apocalypse the worst is over.
Does it go further in your mind just the
worst being over, but is this thing over
Orlando? Where are we in the world of
the SaaS apocalypse?
>> Danni,
SaaS apocalypse for whatever term and
that's a terrible term by the way, I
really don't like that term. It is
finished. No more.
And it it's pretty simple, you know,
people are realizing that these are
unbelievable companies and you look at
the numbers coming out even after the
first quarter. And secondly and more
importantly, people are realizing that
SaaS companies just don't stay still.
They're not static.
They evolve with infrastructure. They
evolve with opportunity and SaaS and
Agentech are going to merge very very
very quickly and these companies are the
future of agents in the enterprise and
the market is realizing that as well.
>> So the freak out is over essentially. Is
that what you're saying in private
markets is this stuff starting to be
realized your portfolio maybe some of
your peers at the valuations that you
think they should have or is there still
some frozen assets some stickiness that
has yet to come unglued?
>> In private equity the environment is
pretty stuck right now.
Now I do think
that private equity is the voice of
reason in a lot of this because it makes
sense that deal activity is a lot
slower.
Because if you're going to buy a
technology company or a software company
a solution provider to the enterprise
now you really want to see that they're
making a lot of progress around their AI
offerings. Enough time has passed that
you should see that in the business
because that's where the whole world is
going to evolve to. So why not wait a
little longer before you pull the
trigger and have a little bit more
clarity. That makes sense to me.
>> It doesn't sound like the worst is over
Orlando. It seems like there's still
things that need to be tested and
figured out. So what is the aspect is it
just are you saying our companies are
healthy or is there something else that
the worst of the freak out is truly
over?
>> Well the freak out really happened in
the public markets.
>> True.
>> Right and you've seen since April
software stocks have rebounded really
really strongly but the other thing that
you notice and this is really about
public investor sentiment is that
whenever there's an announcement about
one of the great LLMs coming out with an
amazing model like today the whole
software industry doesn't collapse or
react to it. A big place where you saw
the freak out as you called it be
completely over is where we invest 50%
of our dollars in cyber.
>> Mhm.
>> This is a huge tailwind to cyber and
that's one of the sectors that has
rebounded really strongly over the past
month.
>> What about in in lending what are
conversations with your lenders like or
or is the I remember we had had
conversation saying the cost of capital
has gotten a little bit higher because
of concerns. Has that come back down or
are there still difficult conversations
to be had?
>> Lending is very difficult because and
I'm going to be completely up front
about this.
There many large asset managers that
need to raise so much money monthly.
And from retail.
And it's not the most popular thing
right now to pile that money into
software.
So, it is a much tighter environment.
Now, on the buy side of course that
hurts you with financing, but it means
you pay a lot less.
And funds like ours, we do a lot better
in down markets than in up markets
because we're value investors. So, we're
really enjoying this opportunity, but
once again we're trading carefully
because we want to buy companies that
are part of the future not companies
that are stuck in the past.
>> By the way, um Thoma Bravo more than
most companies has has been very
successful with exits. You've also had
some really successful IPOs, too. We're
going to get to SpaceX this week. We
learned that OpenAI is going to be
coming to market. Anthropic also filed
for an IPO. Is this good or bad for the
IPO environment and prospective exits?
Because for one thing it starts the
capital flowing, but there's also this
question is it all just being funneled?
Are these just black holes of capital if
you're competing for the same
institutional money?
>> Exactly. So, both points are so true. I
was talking to my partner Seth Boro
about this. Uh he's in charge of a lot
of a lot of companies along with
Holden's
that look like they're great IPO
candidates in the 25 billion, 30 billion
dollar valuation range based on about a
billion dollars of free cash flow and
their growth rates. And both of them
told me last year
we won't be able to do anything this
year cuz all the attention and all the
time, let alone the dollars, are going
to be focused on these massive, historic
IPOs. So, the smaller caps, which we are
now, I guess are much more difficult to
get the attention in the short term.
Now, medium term, I really hope they do
well because they're really important
moments for capital markets and their
depth. And if they do well, you'll get
more confidence in in the IPO market.
>> What is a typical period for that? I I
know SpaceX is we don't really have a
historical corollary cuz it's just so
large in size, but what would be your
estimation of when you can enter back
into the IPO market after these come in?
>> Hopefully 9 months a year after. Now,
that's a guess, right? So many things
are up in the air. What happens with
interest rates? What happens with
valuations? Is there a slowdown in the
infrastructure build? There's so many
questions, right? It's a wild investing
environment. People are saying a lot of
strange things in investing right now.
And the toughest thing for people that
have a core competency in something is
to stay the course. And of course, once
again, you have to be part of the
future, but you have to stick with what
you know really well.
>> you and I last year had this discussion
that this industry had lost its way. Do
you think people have had that come to
Jesus moment? Have they kind of come
around or are there still lessons to be
learned, do you think?
>> They're having it now.
Look, if you see some of the software
troubled credits, which they are. It's
it's out there.
It's not yet a product of AI having
impacted those companies or those
companies failing to transition to the
new platform, which by the way, is the
biggest opportunity in the software
industry. It really really really is.
It's an issue of how those companies
were run.
People thought 10 years ago, after they
saw all this money being made in private
equity in software, that it was really
easy.
I buy subscription revenue, 90% gross
margin, I cut some cost, and I'm good to
go. They forgot to innovate. And they
forgot to invest in R&D, and they forgot
the domain knowledge of existing
management by replacing them. And that's
coming back to create some flatness in
the environment, which is very difficult
for those businesses.
>> By the way, any huge calls of how many
people are going to be losing their
jobs?
>> Look at this at look at this conference.
As you know, I'm an optimist, but what
we're seeing in development the the
great use case for AI is we're hiring a
lot more developers.
>> Orlando, so great to see you. Thank you
so much for joining. Always a pleasure.
>> Thank you.
>> John, that's Orlando Bravo of Thoma
Bravo. Interesting to hear again, he
didn't like the term SAS apocalypse
ever, but it is dead, but also that IPO
window might need to wait a little bit
before you can bring companies public
just given the gravity pull of SpaceX.
>> Interesting, Danny. Nice work this
morning. Enjoyed the conversation. Thank
you. Let's get you an update on news
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief, Vani Quinn has more.
Hey, Vani.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. US CPI data due
out at 8:30 a.m. this morning.
Economists expecting headline inflation
to touch 4.2% the highest since May of
2023.
The core CPI forecast is for it to come
in at 2.9% up 1/10 of a percent from a
year ago. Investors are raising rate
hike bets ahead of today's CPI print and
next week's FOMC meeting.
A Florida trading company says it's in
advanced talks to send Cuba the biggest
cargo of US fuel since the Eisenhower
administration. Vanguard Energy is
gearing up to export 250,000 barrels of
diesel and gasoline.
Anthropic is releasing a missiles-like
model without cyber capabilities. Fable
5 will have guardrails that prevent it
from responding to certain types of
queries including those related to
cybersecurity and to biology. And that
is your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey, Vani. Thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next on the program, the Fed
rate hike debate.
>> Inflation expectations, a tight labor
market, both are signaling cause for
concern. We need to see the Fed remove
the easing bias, but ultimately remove
the insurance cut from last year.
That leads us to three hikes starting in
December.
>> That's the case to hike. Up next, the
case to cut not once, but a few times.
Veronica Clark of Citi
>> [music]
>> joins us next.
>> Equities declined this morning [music]
by 0.7% on the S&P 500 down by one
percentage point on the NASDAQ. A
pullback on the Russell by 0.7%.
Yesterday was [music] interesting. The
bond market actually provided an offset.
Two's 10's and 30's a four basis point
drop across the curve. Yields this
morning up by not even a single basis
point. Two's back [music] to 4.12, 10's
at 4.52. Heading into CPI later this
morning. As Lisa said earlier this
morning, we're looking for a four handle
on headline inflation.
>> People are going to be looking at the
underlying components. What's driving
this? Is it being driven purely by
energy costs? The core CPI is going to
[music] be really really key in focus.
How much not only is being driven by
energy but also AI spending. Can you
strip that all out and say the consumer
still isn't necessarily increasing their
spending that much or do you have to
take a look at some of the inflationary
inputs that were really in [music] play
when the Fed was hiking rates?
>> And then a week today, Kevin Walsh at
the Federal Reserve understands [music]
this morning the Fed rate hike debate.
>> I would think of the breakeven market as
a faulty fire alarm. You rely on it to
get that signal but you're not getting
it. Inflation expectations, a tight
labor market, both are signaling cause
for concern. We need to see the Fed
remove the easing bias but ultimately
remove the insurance cut from last year.
That leads us to three hikes starting in
December.
>> [music]
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Investors raising rate hike bets ahead
of today's CPI print and next week's
FOMC meeting. Veronica Clark of Citi
suggesting cuts are more likely than
hikes writing in our base case the Fed
cuts rates 75 basis points this year
with 25 basis point cuts in September,
in October, and December. Veronica joins
us now for more. Veronica, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Explain yourself.
>> I know.
>> [laughter]
>> 4% inflation later this morning,
potentially. We'll see what we get. And
you've got three rate cuts for this
year.
>> A lot has to change, of course, right?
The The most important thing I think
that will change is that we will see
weaker labor market data over the
summer.
Certainly don't see that yet in in
payrolls, but there's a lot of
conflicting evidence. You know, we've
had such strong payroll job growth that
the unemployment rate has stayed at
4.3%. We haven't seen wages pick up.
Hiring plans have come back down again.
Those tend to lead payrolls.
Now initial jobless claims are rising.
So, I think we will see weaker
employment data this summer.
And then yeah, you need to see some
favorable details of inflation, and
there's probably going to be more of
this debate among Fed officials of
what's the right inflation measure to
look at. Core PCE is incredibly strong,
but it seems like the outlier.
And I think we'll see some better
details even in CPI this morning.
>> Let's stand the labor market. You
mentioned that. That's the basis for
this call. We had weakness in the labor
market last summer. Weakness in the
labor market the summer before. Feels
like we've got momentum this time going
into this summer.
>> Yeah, payrolls have been stronger, but
I'm really cautious that the payroll
data has just gotten really volatile
this last year.
We've had some months now where they're
consistently stronger. But what I think
might happen is that when we get such a
big shift in immigration patterns, and
we have seen this in Canada also, is
that you can just create this shift in
employment patterns throughout the year,
and maybe that's why you haven't seen
such a re-tightening in the household
survey, the unemployment rate that's
stayed stable.
And that's stayed stable while
immigration has slowed, and that's
stable ahead of the summer hiring season
when you do get students looking for
work, new graduates entering the labor
force. It's that low that's summer
season when you're supposed to hire a
lot of people, and then you're not.
That's when we see the unemployment rate
rise.
>> At the same time, we did see the
employment number arise quite a bit. And
a lot of investors say maybe this data
is kind of messy. So, look at what the
companies are saying. And what the
companies are saying is robust demand,
robust growth, robust profits.
>> Yeah.
>> At what point does that make you a
little nervous about your thesis?
>> Yeah, they're also saying though that
we're not hiring people. So we got the
full details of the NFIB small business
survey yesterday. We got the jobs
details of that last week. Hiring plans
in that NFIB survey do tend to be a good
leading indicator for payrolls and they
broke through the lows in May. So
they're the lowest that we've seen
really since the pandemic. So yeah,
people are still spending but there's
been this pattern for a couple years
that you can have this really low
hiring, you know, weaker labor market
enough to keep the unemployment rate
gradually rising but consumption is
still strong.
>> Can't the Fed cut rates if it ends up
spurring capital markets even further at
a time when they are incredibly hot and
people are raising tens, hundreds of
billions of dollars. I mean, I can't
even get my head around some of these
numbers and are able to do so because
they are wide open and increasing
inflation in certain pockets.
>> Yeah, that that is the best argument for
maybe why you shouldn't be cutting
because the inflation that you see
really is coming from, you know, maybe
the business sector, right? It's that
AI-related inflation. For PCE inflation,
it's also equities that are rising,
those financial services prices. PCE in
May probably looks pretty strong.
But if you're considering what, you
know, traditional,
drivers of inflation, tight labor
markets, housing, you know, what is
higher rates going to do to home prices
that are already flat on an annual basis
and wages that have already slowed back
to pre-pandemic and it's not a source of
inflation.
>> A lot of the Fed speak has focused on
individuals saying it's time to go back
to neutral. Who do you think your
position right now at the Fed?
>> I think the Fed official that I would
pay most attention to that maybe sounds
the most, you know, cautious like I am
on the labor market is Mary Daly.
And yeah, most Fed officials of course
are going to be fine leaving rates as
they are now. We're going to see, you
know, guidance removed and everything
next week. But if there were to be any
signs of the labor market loosening
again, I think someone like Mary Daly
would be an early indicator of that.
>> Bank of America thinks it's messy as
well right now, the labor market, but
they don't think it's m e double s y.
They think it's m e double s i. They
think it's the World Cup.
>> Right. Right.
>> it's a World Cup impact here?
>> I
people started to cite that right after
we got the the data. You know, we had
the strength and leisure hospitality. Um
a big interesting increase in local
government employment. Maybe there's
some security or something related
there. Um we'll get the state level data
in a couple weeks. It does not align
perfectly with the national data, um but
probably gets more important as people
try to pick out yes the hiring in these
states that are hosting the World Cup.
>> Okay, good to see you. Looking forward
to that data as well. Veronica Clark
there of Citi. Heard that explanation
repeatedly over the weekend to really
support that massive surprise we saw on
payrolls.
>> I asked uh Scott Kirby about this from
United Airlines and he said it's an
infinitesimal point. However, on my
plane back from Brazil, the number of
people wearing Brazilian jerseys first
of all, that's just sort of the uniform
you have to wear in Brazil is that sort
of a
>> That was the Boston uniform at one
point, wasn't
>> Yeah, and green. I mean
>> It took on a very national
>> It took it was very political at the
same time. Either it was political or
everybody was going to the World Cup cuz
nobody could speak English and everybody
was wearing that jersey.
>> My favorite this has nothing to do with
the economy. My favorite thing about the
Brazilian team, they blessed the plane
on the tarmac. I think you sent me this
video.
>> they blessed
it.
>> Can we get a Jesuit or something down at
MSG today before before game four?
>> Big game a little bit later. You heading
over?
>> No, I mean I mean maybe.
>> going back?
>> The well so a sports reporter came out
and said the president will not be
attending game four after rumors. So I
guess there was an inquiry sent from the
White House potentially. I'm reading
into this.
>> About him going back. And I think he
wants to be there for a win. He doesn't
want to be there for a loss. He stayed
for the whole game.
>> Ramos not interested.
>> Putting aside
President Trump
>> Tell us what you really think.
>> To have somebody shut down all the
streets, all the watch parties
>> it again tonight.
>> all the joy that typically comes with
all of this is no I'm totally with you.
4 hours in advance. Come on, this is New
York.
>> They shut down the joy.
I'm dead at
>> I mean, it's not even about who it is.
>> I get you.
I understand.
Up next on the program. Could tell that
Abramowicz was frustrated. [music] Jim
Bianco, Bianco Research.
>> Traffic.
>> Lori Calantiev, Westlake Advisory. Henry
McVey
>> [music]
>> of KKR. Tony Rodriguez of Moody's. The
second hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
just around the corner.
>> There's nothing in the data that leads
us to believe that inflation is slowing
down on a steadier basis.
>> All the inflation we're really seeing is
supply
driven.
>> The Fed is succeeding on the job side of
the mandate, but not succeeding on the
inflation side.
>> There's a lot of inflation in the
pipeline, [music]
which is going to affect the actual CPI
numbers.
>> I think it's going to be very important,
and I think it's going to be grim.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, [music]
and Anne Marie Hordern.
>> Jim Bianco coming in hot this morning.
Talking about everything but financial
markets.
>> It's the piece of people care about this
morning.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from audience
worldwide. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. And your
price action financial markets look like
this. Equity futures on the S&P -0.6
after wild swings in the last 24 [music]
hours. On the Nasdaq down by one full
percentage point. In the bond market,
things settling down just a bit heading
into CPI. Two's at four 12, 10's at
4.53. [music] And in commodities, energy
not doing much. It's got every reason to
rally, and it isn't. 91 on Brent, WTI at
87 heading into this [music] at 8:30
Eastern time. Just around the corner, 90
minutes away, CPI in America.
>> Yeah, we're going to get a read that
potentially is the hottest going back to
2023 in 3 years. North of 4%, and a lot
of people are going to look beneath the
headline. And the bulls, the hawks on
the Fed camp are going to be talking
about just the headline number and the
re-acceleration and how this is
problematic and it's coming from core as
well. And the people who are dovish are
going to say, "Look, it's all energy.
It's all AI spend. And when you take a
look at the other metrics like we were
just hearing from Veronica Clark, it
isn't that inflationary trimmed mean.
It's below 3%." Who's going to win out
ultimately? This market is looking at
the hawks.
>> There's going to be something for
everyone on the Federal Reserve when it
comes to this inflation print whether
you look at headline or core. But for
this White House, owning a four-handle
on inflation is not a good look going
into peak driving season and obviously
the midterm election.
>> So you've heard the case to cut from
Veronica Clark over at Citi,
>> [music]
>> unemployment, the labor market. She
thinks things will weaken through the
summer. Don't see that right now. You've
heard the case to hike from BNP Paribas.
And BNP's point is something I've heard
also from [music] Matt Luzzetti over at
Deutsche Bank. Framing matters here. Do
you think we need to hike? It's one way
of asking a question. Do you think
[music] we need to take back the cuts of
last year is another way of asking the
same question. And that's the push that
I'm hearing more recently over the last
week. [music]
>> Did we take out too much insurance given
the fact that this market was running a
lot hotter, this economy was running a
lot hotter than people previously
expected? [music] And I would take that
a step further and say right now at the
momentum that you're seeing in in
capital markets despite [music]
rates where they are gives you a sense
that maybe this isn't so restrictive for
capital markets. It might be restrictive
for families, for individuals. [music]
But for capital markets, that's fueling
capital raises that we haven't seen
before. And you're seeing everybody
[music] with their hand out. It's
governments, it's tech companies, it's
non-tech companies that need to invest
in all of these commodities that are
increasing in the prices. And if the
market [music] is able to fund it, well
they can still pay for it and pay for
higher prices. And guess what? That
affects how much you're paying for your
smartphone [music] and how much you're
paying for your life.
>> The crowding out is building and you can
see it. And there's just little bits of
evidence building up that you're getting
some pushback in the equity market.
Friday, [music] decent example. Meta in
the FT considering raising equity
capital in a similar way to what
Alphabet did a few days previously. Just
last week Alphabet raised an $85 billion
in in equity capital,
>> [music]
>> massive number. Supermicro this morning
looking to raise $7 billion in an equity
deal for AI equipment. Look at that
stock this morning, down by 10% [music]
in the premarket. So, you're starting to
see the evidence just pile up, just
little bits here and there. I don't
think it's massive pushback, but just
small [music] signs of evidence that
we're pushing things too far.
>> At a certain point, there has to be a
finite amount of money unless you start
printing it. If you start printing it,
well then we've got another inflation
problem. But you start to think about
what Amory was mentioning, which [music]
is where is the money going to come from
to buy SpaceX that's going to start
trading on Friday. And and possibly it's
going to come from a lot of index fund
buying, right? So, how are these index
funds potentially rearranging their
portfolios to absorb about 30% of the
total flow, which is what the
expectation is right now.
>> So, it's just this morning down by 3/4
of 1% on the S&P 500. Coming up this
hour, Jim Bianco of Bianco Research as
the market sell-off is deepening. Lori
Calante of WestExec Advisors with
President Trump on a piece of the AI
pie. And Tony Rodriguez of New Street on
how Big Tech is contributing to
inflation. We begin this hour with
stocks adding to losses. Jim Bianco of
Bianco Research writing the market is
operating under the assumption that the
AI industry is not a bubble. AI is
currently in a hype cycle. Jim joins us
now for more. Jim, good morning. We'll
save the sports, we'll put that at the
end, all right? Let's start with the
financial markets. The hype, how much
hype is there right now into this IPO?
>> Oh, I think it's it's off the charts
right now as far as the hype goes. That
AI is the biggest technology that we've
seen probably in our lifetime.
Everybody's investing in it. They've
sold it, I'm talking about Dario Amonte
and Sam Altman, that if you don't invest
in our company at a trillion-dollar
valuation, everyone everything else
everybody's going to lose their job and
everything else is going to be worth
zero. So, they've really hyped it a lot.
And so, two things can be true at the
same time. The technology could be very
real and it could be very transformative
and we've also kind of overhyped these
companies.
>> employment protection, isn't it? We've
said that a few times. You're not going
to lose your jobs, so as well buy the
stock.
>> Yeah, you might as well buy risk on with
absolutely everything and give your
money away, as my father feels.
>> Do you think we're getting some pushback
in capital markets now? Is it starting
to build? Just small signs here, there,
and there.
>> Yes, I think so. And And also, I think
that there there's been a a narrative
out there that makes a little bit of
sense that the sell-off we've seen this
week is preparation for SpaceX on
Friday. You know, where's the money
going to come from to buy the IPO? Well,
we're finding it out with the sell-off
in the last couple of days, but yeah, I
think we are starting to see a little
bit of a pushback, but you know, that's
to be expected. Remember, we had an
8-week, 9 consecutive day rally going
into the top. This is the kind of
correction you get after that run love
that magnitude.
>> to pull back again this morning. Bring
up the chart on the S&P 500, session
lows, down 1%. Some comments from the
president. Iran will have to pay the
price. Iran is all talk and no action.
Iran has taken too long to negotiate a
deal.
>> They've taken too long to negotiate a
deal, says the president, and that would
have been great for them, he thinks.
Quote, "Now they will have to pay the
price." So, this is definitely rhetoric
in terms of escalation, not
de-escalation. Just 2 days ago, I was
with the president, he said we were 2 or
3 days away. Potentially, it could be
very quick to get to an end point. He
clearly is not happy with what's going
on the negotiating table. He clearly is
not happy with the fact that they downed
a US helicopter. We saw retaliation for
that. It sounds like at the moment, if
you take his words for real, that
potentially we could see more
retaliation.
>> crude, Brent, WTI. Push that story,
those headlines, through the energy
market. It's worth not even a 2% rally
on Brent crude this morning, just short
of 93.
>> I was just thinking as Emery was
talking, this market's not biting. I
mean, essentially, people don't believe
that there's going to be a real
re-acceleration, and you could see that
in the muted price action.
>> Jim Bianco, why are we ignoring these
headlines this morning? What do you make
of this?
>> I think there's headline fatigue. I
mean, a little bit of that because we've
been going back and forth with it. I
also think that there's a trouble trying
to understand this current state of the
crude oil market. How much are we
running down inventories? How much is
actually sneaking out of the Strait of
Hormuz? Kuwait is now starting to ask
that the they're going to start shipping
oil. How are they going to pull that
off? I thought the Strait was closed.
Maybe it's not. So, there's a lot of
other things going on in this market
than just whether or not the president
says we're going to go to war or not.
>> There is a feeling that even if prices
stay here for oil, that companies can
absorb it. That essentially it's not a
deal killer and that it's not going to
really cause this disinflationary demand
destruction that people had expected. I
mean, how do you fold that into your
feeling about AI and the narrative there
that's driving everybody to look past
all of these real geopolitical risks and
the potential inflationary inputs?
>> Well, you're right. If the price of oil
stays where it is right now, it's not a
big deal.
Um it's it can be handled. But, the
question is will it stay at this level?
Because I you know, the the push-pull is
as long as the price of oil stays at 90
bucks, there's no urgency to do anything
about the Strait of Hormuz. And then it
just continues and continues and
inventories run down and we eventually
hit that low where we've kind of run out
of inventories and then we see a spike
in oil later on. You know, it would
almost be better off if the price of oil
was going up now because then it'd be
more of an urgency to put a resolution
into this situation instead of just
dragging it out as we've seen.
>> We have seen though these choke points
emerge, right? Where suddenly the
physical assets become very desirable
and people are willing to pay almost any
price for them. And we see that in the
chip sector, we see that with some of
the precious metals. And then you see
these companies raising more debt to pay
for the higher prices as everybody tries
to get in. Does that worry you that sort
of there is this leveraged cycle going
on in a way?
>> You know, the leverage cycle is actually
working to some extent, too. You know,
you if you remember that image that we
talked about last year where everybody
owns everybody else and at the center of
it was Anthropic, which is now gotten
gone from $380 billion in the first
quarter to $956 billion now. And all
that is now now up in people like Amazon
and Microsoft's income statements as
other income. And so, it's actually
helping the stock market go up for a
moment. But yeah, you're right. The the
whole premise on AI is that it's going
to it's going to replace SAS. That's
really what it's going to do. That as I
like to say, there's a keyboard in front
of us. In 2 years, we won't need these
because we'll just have a a context
window. We'll just ask our computer what
we want. It will produce the result we
need. We And so, the whole interface
that we'll have with computers will very
well change. If that happens, then all
this spending that we're seeing on AI is
not overdone. But if in a couple of
years, we're still going to need all the
software that we personally have plus
everything else. Oh, and we also pay for
AI, then it is overdone. So, will it
meet that promise that it's going to
fundamentally change the way we interact
with data through software in a
computer. If it does, it's not overdone.
>> That sounds more expensive than hiring
someone to type.
>> It It it might be now, but the hope is
is that, you know, the the cost will
come down um in the future. And that's
really where we are. You know, if you
want an analogy of what we're talking
about here is the iPhone. Why do we pay
1,100 bucks for an iPhone? It's not to
make phone calls. It's that I don't need
to buy a camera. I don't need to buy a
video recorder. I don't need to buy a
tape recorder or a photo album or
anything else or a calculator or
flashlight. It's all in one device. So,
I'm happy to pay that kind of price.
Well, if I don't have to pay for all
this software and everything else, I'm
happy to pay higher prices for AI, but
it has to fulfill that promise. If it
does, then it's not overdone.
>> When it comes to what is going on, back
to the president's truth about trade or
firm most, he also said recently to the
New York Post potentially that we could
be here until September.
Does that have any impact?
>> Well, if it runs down inventories. If,
you know, the the idea here is why we're
at $90 is because we're offsetting it
through less demand from China who's
running down their enormous inventories
and everybody else. So, as long as
inventories keep having room to be drawn
down, we could make it to September. If
we get to that, you know, operational
limit that everybody talks about, then
we will run into problems. We I it's
hard to say where that level is, but the
argument is, and I believe it, it's
months, it's not years or anything like
that.
>> Hi Jim, it's good to see you in person.
Do you want to squeeze in the run about
basketball, about New York sports? Do
you want to get that in?
>> Yeah, well, you know
>> friends who had a client meeting a
little bit later today. Go for it.
>> Right.
I saw this with the Cubs 10 years ago.
The people were so invested in this team
winning, they stood the whole game, you
put so much pressure on the team on the
team, they lost all the home games. And
they had to wind up winning the series
on the road. And the Knicks might have
to do same thing.
>> Jim, it's good to see you.
>> Good to see you. Good to see you in
person, too, buddy.
>> Thank you.
>> Thanks for dropping by. Jim Bianco there
of Bianco Research. If you are just
joining us, welcome to the program. So,
these headlines just dropping just
moments ago. This statement from the
President of the United States. He has
taken a lot in the last week, accepted
it and committed to de-escalation and
diplomacy. Is that about to change?
Check this out. Iran's military is a
complete and total mess. Much of it,
like their navy and air force, doesn't
even exist anymore. They've been
completely defeated. Iran is all talk
and no action. The bully of the Middle
East is dead. They've taken too long to
negotiate a deal that would have been
great for them. Now they will have to
pay the price.
>> look like his patience is wearing thin
this morning. Although we have to note
we have been here before. Is this
negotiating tactic from the President to
put out truth like that like this,
talking tough to try to get them to have
an agreement because he has been hanging
on to the ceasefire. And he keeps
signaling that he wants a peace
agreement. But when I was with him on
Friday and he was speaking to farmers,
he said, and farmers were dealing with
higher fertilizer prices, higher diesel
prices, he said it's either going to end
with a piece of paper or another way.
It'll be a harder way, maybe a quicker,
but and he was talking about more
escalation.
>> Brent crude this morning up just 1% off
the back of these headlines. Equities
were already lower, down just a little
bit more. We're negative by 0.9% call it
down 1% on the S&P 500. With an update
on stories worldwide this morning with
your Bloomberg brief, Voni Quinn has
more. Hey Voni.
>> Hey John, thank you. Progressive
Democrat Graham Platner winning Maine's
a Senate primary. Platner's campaign was
plagued by a series of scandals and
accusations of past misbehavior.
>> [music]
>> He'll face Republican Susan Collins in
November. She ran uncontested in her bid
for a sixth [music] Senate term.
California's SoFi Stadium averting a
worker strike just days before it's set
to host the US team's first World Cup
match. Workers are scheduled to vote on
ratification of the agreement which will
expire in April 2028 ahead of the Summer
Olympics in Los Angeles.
President Trump saying Iran is all talk
and no action when it comes to working
on a peace plan. The president saying
Iran has taken too long to make a deal
and will have to pay the price. And that
[music] is your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey Voni, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next we'll get you an update
on just that down in Washington D.C.
We'll catch up with Tyler Kendall in
just a moment. Equity futures just off
session lows. We're down almost 1% on
the S&P. From New York City this
morning. Good morning.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Check out the price
action. Tech declines across the board.
The Nasdaq down by 1.3%. The S&P down
[music] by 0.9. The losses building up
just a moment ago. More signs of
increased tension between Iran and the
United [music] States contributing to
that just on the margins. Check out the
bond market. Two's, 10's, 30's. Yields
shaping up as follows. Two-year yields
up by a single basis point and crude
barely blinking off the back of some
important developments taking place
right now. A developing story with crude
Brent at 92 and up just 1%. WTI still
holding on to an 89 handle. And the
Savannah [music] this morning, there are
new threat to Iran.
>> I would say the ceasefire is on massive
life support. If there's no ceasefire,
you're not going to have to know. You're
just going to have to look at one big
glow coming out of Iran.
>> In that part of the world, ceasefire is
when you're shooting in a more moderate
manner. There's a reason for everything.
And we hit them pretty hard. We're going
to win one way or the other. It's going
to be militarily or on paper.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump issuing a new
threat to Iran. The president posting on
social media moments ago. Iran has taken
too long to negotiate a deal that would
have been great for them. Now, they'll
have to pay the price. Bloomberg's
Taylor Kendl joins us now for more. Hey,
Taylor.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, it's
clear that President Trump's patience is
now wearing thin as he issues this new
threat about Iran taking too long to
come to the negotiating table. It's
raising questions about what could be
the US's next steps here after President
Trump over the weekend in an interview
outlined that his potential red lines
for ending the ceasefire would be if
Americans were killed or if he feels
that a deal could not be reached or
reached fast enough. Keep in mind after
we saw the worst flare-up in fighting
earlier this week between Israel and
Iran, our analysts at Bloomberg
Economics said that this could represent
two things. One, Iran may feel more
emboldened to flex its muscles amid the
ongoing negotiations being dragged out
or two, this could be the start of a
wider escalation spiral. We'll have to
see where this goes from here cuz we did
see the US respond last night to an
American military helicopter being shot
down. While Iran hasn't denied that its
forces were involved in that attack, it
has indicated that perhaps it wasn't
intentional in that helicopter going
down, but it certainly flared the
tensions overnight with both sides
exchanging fresh fire. John, at this
point, the White House still maintains
that diplomacy is a viable option.
Whether or not President Trump's
comments change that remains to be seen.
A person familiar with the matter did
did tell Bloomberg News overnight that
the two sides do continue negotiations.
They called the negotiations, quote,
intense and that they are being mediated
continuously by Pakistan.
>> It's Anas Al Kendo down in Washington,
D.C. Anas, thank you. You read those
headlines, you put together the stories
of the last week. We said it earlier
this morning, every single reason
building up for a high crude price, and
you don't see it on the screen this
morning. We're up by just 1%.
>> Jim Bianco really spoke to something
that people in the oil industry are
talking about, the fact that Kuwaiti
barrels for the first time are starting
to get out. They're going to China.
Adnoc is getting stuff out. You had an
Emirati delegation, Iranian delegation
meeting when it comes to economic
cooperation. Phone calls between Tehran
and Riyadh continue. So, maybe on the
margins, more oil is coming out of the
region than we can really understand,
and that is what's keeping a little bit
of a lid on prices. And on top of that,
you get the verbal intervention of the
president almost consistently, besides
this morning, that he wants to see a
peace settlement.
>> This was also meant to be the focus down
in Washington, D.C. today. The focus was
meant to be a meeting. Still don't know
if that meeting's taking place between
the president and a bunch of founders,
leaders of the Open AI Anthropic world.
>> You always called it the phantom call in
Trump's first administration.
>> meeting.
>> This feels like a phantom meeting
because the president told us on Air
Force One, and he was like, "Did you
guys know about that?" We were like,
"No, please tell us more. Who's going to
be attending?" He says there's going to
be a meeting this week between He said
all the big ones, so Anthropic, Open AI,
SpaceX when it comes to how there could
be some sort of financing, public
private partnership. Some are even
saying go as far as what they would call
nationalization of these companies, the
government taking equity stakes. Yet,
there is no meeting. Uh potentially,
though, there's one on the horizon the
president is manifesting.
>> reporting that
maybe the companies weren't even aware
of this meeting.
>> Yes.
>> ahead of this meeting. Laura Galante of
WestExec Advisors and member of the Open
AI Frontier Risk Council writing the
following. The Trump administration has
already supported government involvement
in strategically important sectors. AI
seems to be the next category. Laura
joins us now for more. Laura, welcome to
the program. What is the argument to
take stakes in these companies?
>> Jonathan, the argument is around the
national competitiveness of what AI
brings to the US. So, there's there's
two pieces that I think Trump's reacting
to and Bernie has a proposal on this as
well. Where they're looking for ways the
administration's looking for ways to
take the um wealth that is going to be
coming and is coming from these AI
companies, from the transformation
that's happening. And also, there's a
public risk and an exposure piece here
um that's coming down the line too ahead
of these IPOs. And look at this and say,
how do you keep the innovation moving
forward? How do you keep this
competitive advantage moving forward,
especially vis-a-vis China? And this
ownership question, do you take a stake
in these companies, is really where, you
know, the debate's focused the last
couple weeks. But, what are we trying to
achieve? And are there ways to do that
that still give a competitive edge to
the US and to this technology?
>> One key point will be who are the
personnel staffings that are going to
make some of these decisions and have
the expertise. Laura, we've seen a
number of individuals depart the White
House recently, most recently Thomas
Lynn, who had really been the architect
behind a lot of the AI strategy of the
White House. Does that concern you?
>> I think that more than, you know, a
single person here or there moving on in
terms of strategy, the question is what
tools and who is going to be thinking
through creative ways to either do
competitiveness policy, do industrial
policy, and look for ways to to keep the
innovation to keep the innovation
moving, to keep these companies in a
place where they can have a public
discussion around risks, and then be
able to channel that to the to the
levers of state that you have when
you're sitting as an incumbent
administration. And I think the capacity
question that you're getting at is huge
here. Do you have the people? Do you
have the expertise? And then do you have
the channel established? What's been
really interesting to me is watching
OpenAI and Anthropic put out these
public policy statements and put out
these very clear questions around how
should you regulate us? Should we have
sovereign wealth funds to figure out how
to distribute the dividends here?
They're putting out policy hooks.
They're putting out big questions
saying, "We don't have the answers, but
we're open to the dialogue." Is the
White House is the administration poised
to be able to start answering those
questions? That's the that's the big you
know discussion here in Washington and
also really key to how we get policy
that is effective here.
>> Laura, one advisor who's now left but
still close to the president, of course,
David Sacks says America won't win the
AI race if we beat China but end up with
a CCP-style social credit system in the
US. And the danger is that the
government becomes more deeply involved
in these AI developments. Isn't there a
risk of this this idea of
nationalization? This is not free market
the way Republicans think of them.
>> Certainly, the concept of an ownership
stake in an American company is such a
rare occurrence. We have to think back
to the 2008 financial crisis, other huge
national emergencies to even have the
paradigm here of the US government
taking a stake in a company. On the
other hand, you look at what the
administration did with Intel, the $9
million investment there on the chip
side a lot 10% of of Intel, a pretty
decent stake. And you're looking at a
new question of how do you
um have a place at the table with this
technology, but then you have this call,
and you hear it in David Sachs, you hear
it in a lot of traditional Republicans,
and across the aisle, of is this
socialism? Is this picking winners and
losers? Is there um a risk here of
anti-competitiveness? And I think that's
a really legitimate concern. So, how do
you get at the objective you want? And
the question that I think people are
going to keep grappling with are, you
know, whatever the lever is to extract
some level of ownership or wealth from
the dividends that are coming from AI,
what container do you use to have to to
put that in? Is it a sovereign wealth
fund? Is it competitiveness and
infrastructure buildout? China's been
doing this state fusion industrial uh
policy concept for decades. We're not
going to beat China at its own game, but
we can turbocharge the innovation system
that we have here in the US.
>> Laura, appreciate your time. The debate
will continue. Laura Galante there of
WestExec Advisors. I draw a line between
Intel and what's happening here. I think
you can make the case with Intel there
was a gap in private investment that the
government was looking to sacrifice free
markets [music] at the altar of national
security, and we need to support a
buildout here domestically for that
reason. I don't think you can make the
argument there's a gap in private
investment right [music] now. This is
about redistribution of very narrow
gains in this economy.
>> No one can look at this market and say
that these companies can't raise money.
Tell me that with a straight face, and
I'll laugh all the way to the door.
>> This one feels different. Let's put it
that way. Coming up, Henry McVey of KKR
out with a fresh midyear report saying
the Fed's easing [music] cycle is
fading.
A few headlines from the president in
the last 20 minutes or so. Here's the
latest from [music] the president of the
United States on the situation with
Iran. They've taken too long to
negotiate a deal that would have been
great for them. Now they have to pay the
price. Just moments ago, telling Fox
News he's close to ordering new strikes
on the country. [music]
>> So we've seen a defensive posture in
this administration. We've seen some
assertiveness from the Iranians like
downing an American helicopter and they
responded. Now it does seem like the
president is patience is wearing thin
and according to Fox, he's saying he's
close to ordering new strikes on Iran.
[music] So that would mean that the
president is not choosing the diplomatic
option that he has been hanging on to
for so long. Just Monday evening, he
told us that potentially we could have
an agreement in two to three days. Well,
this does not sound like we're getting
close to any sort of agreement.
>> It's not much of a passing crude though.
Check it out. Brent and WTI up by not
even 2% off the back of this. WTI still
trading in the 80s just about. Brent
crude short of 93. [music]
>> I mean this is the idea that the market
keeps getting at. The second derivative
gone amok where essentially nobody is
going to allow prices to get that high.
So there will be a resolution so the
prices don't ever get that high so
there's no resolution and that's
essentially the the doom loop that we're
in right now.
>> Got to the CPI later this morning. 60
minutes away with yields just a little
bit elevated. Two Z 10 30s [music] up a
basis point or two and equities
declining on the S&P 500 this morning.
Session lows down 1% on the S&P. Tech is
a factor here. Wild swings in chips in
the last 24 [music] hours. Wild swings
in chips over the last three sessions.
Make it four. The Nasdaq 100 down by
1.5% this morning. Let's get you some
single names, some morning movers.
>> Hara has more. Hi Hara.
>> Hi John. Super Micro is the latest
company to join the party in raising
capital announcing a $7 billion equity
raise but shares are falling some
[music] 12% now since it is a diluting
event. Sales of its AI servers have
surged so the company says it needs more
cash to fulfill some $39 billion in
orders [music] and the problem for of
server companies like this one is that
they have to spend [music] heavily up
front on chips and other components
which we know have gotten pricier. Uh
speaking of chips, as you just
mentioned, we are seeing a second day of
weakness [music] in the chip sector with
names like Micron, Intel, AMD, and
Nvidia all lower after we saw a wild
session yesterday for the semiconductor
stocks with the Philadelphia
Semiconductor Index uh falling some 10%
at its lows before recovering, [music]
but still ending the day in the red as
investors uh lock in profits in the
market's hottest trade, but also maybe
make some room for SpaceX. [music] And
we end on the restaurant chain Cracker
Barrel. Shares are surging uh nearly 10%
in the premarket after it raised its
full-year outlook. Remember, it got
major backlash after its rebrand, but
now it's trying [music] to make up for
it by leaning more into its Americana
brand, and that seems to be working for
the company. John.
>> Yohai, thank [music] you. Thanks for the
update. Appreciate it. More from Yohai
in the next hour. On our radar this
morning, Anthropic set to release a new
version of Mythos called Fable 5,
designed with strict guardrails to block
cybersecurity tasks. The company also
announcing Mythos 5 without those
safeguards that will be available to
select groups. Elsewhere, New York City
Controller Mark Levine blasting Elon
Musk's quote unprecedented control over
SpaceX. Levine warning Musk's 80% voting
power disregards investor rights and
that it would be complicated to exclude
SpaceX from public pension funds. And
finally, Yohai has been on top of the
story all morning. Shares of Super Micro
Computer falling in premarket trading.
The company aiming to raise $7 billion
through a package of equity offerings in
an effort to purchase the equipment
needed to fulfill AI server orders.
>> Is there room in the market right now
for other companies other than SpaceX or
potentially Anthropic and OpenAI to
raise money? And potentially are they
going to be charged that much more for
premium? And that's the takeaway here.
Also, this is being This is money that's
going to go toward building the server
parts to pay for existing orders. This
isn't speculative and yet it just
highlights how robust the demand is, how
unable people are to keep up, and the
increase in prices that they have to pay
to obtain some of those materials that
they then have to finance in the debt
markets. I mean,
again, the capital raising that's going
on right now is a bit mind-blowing.
>> Never mind the IPOs, they're not waiting
for the IPOs. Alphabet upsized capital
raise of $85 billion. We've
mentioned that report in the FT on
Friday around Meta doing the same thing
this again. And the equity markets
started to push back. Now, how much
tolerance these C-suites have for that
equity pain is something we'll have to
debate in the weeks and months to come.
>> And just to build on what you're talking
about, it's an important point. They've
tapped the debt market. They're worried
about tapping the debt market too much.
So now they're going to the equity
market and saying, "You too need to bear
part of this because we can't just go to
the debt market." It speaks to the scope
of financing that needs to get raised.
And to Jim Bianco's point, either this
is a revolution that is going to change
the way we do everything in a couple of
years, or this is an overpriced
proposition. Most people seem to believe
the former, not the latter.
>> Kevin Walsh is going to have a really
hard task next week talking about some
of this. Speaking of KKR releasing their
mid-year outlook highlighting the top
themes from the first half and looking
ahead to the rest of the year, including
a fresh outlook on the Fed with Kevin
Walsh's first meeting as chair a week
away. The team over at KKR writing the
easy cycle is fading and the next debate
may be more about how long policy stays
restrictive. We have removed our 126
rate cut from our forecast. Henry McVey
of KKR joins us now for more.
>> Henry, good morning. Good to see you.
>> see you. Thank you for having me.
>> Thanks for being here, sir. Let's get
into this. How have things changed for
this Federal Reserve in the last few
months?
>> Um look, I think what's become very
clear is and it's kind of the the title
of the piece. We're calling this the
divergence conundrum.
Half the world is having massive
spending increases around national
security
uh and then around AI and that is
[snorts] uh almost spending it's an
existential threat. You look at the
other half of the economy around goods
and housing and it's depressed. So, you
have this pendulum like which way do you
go if you're a see it's a little bit of
a seesaw and the central bank is getting
mixed signals, right? Interest rates are
blunt instrument. You probably should be
raising rates to restrict the pace of
growth in the build out of the national
security and the AI, but you probably
should be cutting rates to help the
lower income as well as the housing
market. So, that that is really what the
piece outlet outlines and really three
other periods in history, the 1870s, the
1920s, and the 1990s usually comes with
some type of industrial revolution and
productivity boom. My gut is is that um
that the new Fed chair, what they'll try
to do is do no harm in June, right?
Which is this is probably not the time
to make a massive pivot one way or the
other. Um but my my gut is is that I
look, I thought Lael Brainard and others
were right when they moved to a more
neutral posture. We have 150 to 200
companies around the world. We have a
great headline system on what you're
seeing and prices paid are going up
around the world. They they are, right?
There are two things going on. One is
this demand-driven need for AI because
you need to cement your competitive
position. The second is is that more and
more countries are realizing how to
leverage economic choke points for
political gains.
>> Can you make the argument on the other
side there's an extra wrinkle here? That
the consumers right sensitive and all
this spending we're seeing isn't Is that
an extra problem for this Fed?
>> I actually think that what's most
interesting about this cycle from a
leverage standpoint is we've always
lived in the world since I've known you
guys where the consumer leveraged up and
the corporate leveraged up and the
government deleveraged. Right now, the
consumer in anticipation of what's going
on with the government debt markets has
deleveraged in aggregate and the and the
corporate even though we're seeing a lot
of issuance right now, by and large they
have much lower levels. So, there are
signaling mechanisms going on. If the
offset of that is when the governments
went crazy after COVID by priming the
pump,
uh they really ran ramped up their
leverage and that's what's leading to
this breakdown for most CIOs is that
their their shock absorbers, which were
traditionally risk-free rates, are not
acting like risk-free rates, right?
Japan's bond market selling off because
you moved from deflation to inflation.
The UK is the tip of the spear, right?
Which is you've got If you raise taxes,
uh everybody complains. If you don't
raise taxes, then they want to sell the
bond market up. And the US is the third
and you know, around liberation day and
some other areas, it's just the bonds
are no longer providing that stability
that they did and it's one of the things
that we think is different about
different about this cycle. We've been
highlighting that for some time, but
that really fits into this narrative,
which is you do have this higher resting
heart rate for inflation.
>> They're not providing the stability. Are
they the source of risk right now as
governments sell bonds at the fastest
pace in history?
>> Yeah, I think we're running I think I
think we're running
debt levels running at these same rates
for some time will continue to be
problematic and it's one of the reasons
we would argue you need to think about
other things in your in your portfolio.
We obviously sit on top of a you know,
we manage 800 billion dollars
[clears throat] of private assets, so we
have our own views around private equity
and infrastructure and asset-based
finance, but I think this is true from
the individual investor all the way up
to the institutional investor that this
time is different.
>> There is a feeling right now that there
are pockets of froth that have yet to be
worked out of the system and that there
is a lot of money chasing AI and
inevitably some of it will be lost in
big swaths. You say that at some point
there will be some sort of rebalancing
that ultimately will be required. Can
you explain what that means?
>> So if you go I'll I'll you I mean to me
I'm I mentioned those periods, the
1870s, the 1920s, the 1990s. This is
probably most akin to the railroad build
out in the 1870s. Railroads actually
came about 60% of the market
of the market cap, right? So So it can
go on for longer than what you think and
the The thing is is if you if you look
and we see this internally,
I would say
most CEOs who come on your show are
talking about AI productivity. The boom
that we've had the past 8 to 10 quarters
is not AI. It is started after COVID
with automation, digitalization, machine
learning. We are just at the start of
the AI productivity. And most people are
going to like it, they're going to get
benefits, and they're going to spend
more because they're going to want to
get that internal leverage of the
productivity for their for their
employees. So, I think the spin signal
is actually to keep going, not to slow
down. Um, look, we know from the telecom
issues in 20, you know, 2001, these
things do get overbuilt. And so, there
will probably be some overbuilding, and
we also don't know which large language
model's going to win. I mean, so, to me,
this is a know thy customer, make sure
you have contracted revenues, and don't,
you know, do the if they'll build it,
we'll we'll come. I I think you're going
to see some of that. Um, that's not what
we're trying to do as a firm,
particularly we have a leading, you
know, infrastructure franchise. We do a
lot in AI in the the data center build
out, but we're trying to be disciplined
around that.
>> Won't they all win if the United States
government decides they're going to take
a stake in them?
>> Yeah, I heard your earlier comments. I
think this is actually an excellent
point. What what I see when you go
around the world is that countries are
having very different reactions to AI.
To me, China and the US are the two
leads. The US is going for a very
high-end corporate model.
I would say China's going much more
consumer open source. They're probably
going to be the leads. I think there
will probably be some convergence of of
church and state between the private and
the public sector. But what's also
interesting that people don't talk
about, if you go to Japan, they have to
have AI because there are not enough
people. They're they're saying bring
bring it on. If you go to India, they
got to put 16 million people in the
workforce every year, and IT outsour you
know, outsourcing was one of their
number one exports. That's probably a
little more tense. So, I think it's a
much more nuanced story than what you
hear on the global headlines, and really
what we've tried to do through our
global footprint is figure out, you
know, it's not a one-size-fits-all, and
try to figure out within these different
economies, what do they need? Some need
more power, some need more chips, uh
some need more infrastructure to get to
get um the locations built. And so, it's
um it it is really a time to to drill
in. I think a little bit where you were
going, somebody will overbuild, right?
That's just the nature of these big
industrial revolutions, but the the
power and the productivity that you get
from it are very um will be very
powerful. And we just need to to to
navigate that. And I think the report
does a good job of laying out where we
think investors should should tilt.
>> We [clears throat] finish on Henry, one
thing we aren't guaranteed to getting
more of, and that's more equity supply.
>> Yeah.
>> How the supply-demand backdrop is
shifting and how you and the team are
thinking about that.
>> Yeah, I mean, I think we've been um we
obviously focus on fundamentals and we
try to make companies go from good to
great, you know, doing this for some
time. I focus a lot like you guys do on
the technicals. The technicals have been
as good as they could be for the last 30
years that I see. I measure IPOs,
levered loans, high-yield issuances as a
percentage of GDP. It has been at 3%.
That is 2009's levels. In 2021, that was
8%, but as you guys are reporting, guess
which way the chart's going? It's
getting into the middle. So, we're not
at red alarm and we were where we were
in 2021, but we've left green. And so, I
think that's something as this story
unfolds, and Lisa and you were talking
about this earlier, which is it's not
just the debt. They're now you can't
just keep issuing debt. You've got to
put some some equity into the structure,
too. And the market can the market
digest that?
Uh and so, we'll have to we'll have to
watch, but it's definitely going from a
very green, incredible incredibly
positive backdrop to one that's more
mixed. My personal take is it's actually
not going to be the IPOs. It will be in
2027 where you have the secondary
the unlocks come on. So, uh the IPOs are
going to make the headlines, but when
you look at it in aggregate, it's
probably 300 and 400 billion. That's not
a teeny number, but relative to what can
come on the supply, that's that's more
probable.
>> across asset classes right now, which
part of the market is more vulnerable to
so-called crowding out with all the
supply coming through both in debt and
equity?
>> I think what Look, to me most investors
are globally underweight infrastructure.
They have about 3% of their portfolios
in that. That probably should be double.
That's going to grow. The tech boom is
where you've seen the excess and it's
hard to argue. You have this difficult
thing because
semiconductor chips, particularly in
Korea and other places, are trading like
seven times earnings. They're growing
100%. So, it's going to be what's
embedded in the price and it's going to
be the second derivative. Our model is
showing very strong earnings growth
through '26 and then starts to to slow
down in '27. Higher rates, tightening
central banks, and oil. Oil's actually
not a coincident indicator. It's a
lagging indicator. Usually comes through
the system about 12 to 15 months later.
So, I think what you want to I think
this year we have the chance that we
beat earnings nicely and it keeps the
the market doing okay. I think when you
look more towards the second half of uh
'27, that's where we would see a little
bit of softness in the earnings.
>> Henry, this was a privilege, a pleasure.
Thank you, sir.
>> to see you guys.
>> those conversations I'll go home and
listen back to. Henry McVey there of
KKR. Lisa was talking about the record
debt that we've seen so far. Hannah
Benjamin Cook and the team here in
Bloomberg put in some numbers on that.
$504 billion of debt, sovereign, issued
so far this year, more than the first
half of 2020. Think about how much was
issued through the first half of 2020,
we've beaten that.
>> Yeah, well, prices are rising and the
governments want to get in on it, too,
because they're all trying to solidify
some of their domestic security and
their
critical minerals. What Henry McVey also
wrote about in this piece, which I
thought was really interesting, was that
during times of industrial revolutions,
there tends to be a confluence between
government affairs and government issues
and political issues and economic ones.
And we're seeing that in a massive way
and you see it particularly in the
physical goods space.
>> Big shifts, that's for sure. The S&P
this morning, session lows, we're down
1.1% on the S&P. With an update on news
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Vani Quinn has more. Hey, Vani. [music]
>> Hey, John. President Donald Trump
telling Fox he's close to ordering new
strikes on Iran. The [music] warning
coming after Trump posted on Truth
Social, Iran will quote pay the price
for taking too long to negotiate a peace
deal.
Trump going on to post about the US
blockade of the Strait of Hormuz writing
quote, "Nothing gets through unless we
wanted to. It is a steel wall. Iran is
doing zero business, not paying their
military or any of their bills, and
quickly [music] becoming a failed
nation." Unquote.
TSMC reporting a 30% rise in its monthly
sales. The increase reflecting continued
strength and demand spurred by a global
rush to build AI infrastructure. Asia's
largest company has become an essential
global AI player by making cutting-edge
semiconductors for companies including
Nvidia
>> [music]
>> and AMD. And that is your Bloomberg
brief, John.
>> Hey, Vani. Thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Vani in the next hour.
Up next on the program, big tech [music]
driving inflation higher.
>> Inflation remains above target.
>> I think that the rate-insensitive
[music]
purchasers,
the hyperscalers,
that really hits the nail on the head.
Is that is inflation or overheating?
This is increased [music] demand
outstripping supply and raising prices.
>> Up next, Tony Rodriguez of Nuveen.
Equities declining here with a down 1%
on the S&P 500, negative almost 1.7
[music] on the Nasdaq. It's been a wild
ride for tech in the past few days going
into a record-breaking IPO in the next
few days from SpaceX. Adding to this
move lower, some comments from the
president a little bit earlier losing
some patience [music]
with the Iranians. Only 24 hours ago not
even the president was talking about
closing on a deal with them and now it's
maybe striking them again. [music]
>> Yeah, he said that to my face. He said
it could be two to three days and I said
did you mean weeks? Cuz he usually likes
to do two-week increments. He said nope,
I mean days.
>> [music]
>> So now he's saying that basically when
it comes to Iran, they've taken too long
in his mind to negotiate [music]
a deal. He said it would have been great
for them. Now they will have to pay the
price. So everyone is expecting two
things. [music] One is is the president
just using rhetoric to negotiate better
terms or try to get the Iranians back to
[music] the table cuz they don't really
have a lot of insight on where they are
in the stages of these talks or is he
serious and we're going to see more
strikes.
>> You wouldn't know based on this move in
crude. Said this a few [music] times
Brent this morning around 93. Under
surveillance this morning focused on CPI
at 8:30 Eastern time. Big tech [music]
driving inflation higher.
>> Inflation remains above target. I think
that the rate insensitive
purchasers
the hyper scalers
that really hits the nail on the head.
That is inflation or overheating. This
is increased [music] demand outstripping
supply and raising prices. It's not
something that is going to return
anywhere close to 2% this year.
>> So here's the latest this morning
investors pricing for fresh inflation
data due out today expecting CPI to hit
multi-year highs. Someone Wall Street
warning big tech's AI spending spree
could continue driving up prices. Tony
Rodriguez of Moving Writing tech-related
investment is now contributing to
inflation. We expect this tailwind to
remain over the rest of 26 and into 27.
Tony joins us now for more. Tony, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Does the Fed have to respond to that?
>> We think the Fed is responding because
we think the Fed was going to be cutting
so they're responding by delaying cuts.
So we don't think the Fed's going to
need to respond by raising rates at the
moment. Now if things really get much
worse on the energy side because of
what's happening in the Middle East,
that could maybe push the needle towards
needing a hike. But right now, what we
think has happened is cuts are off the
table for the balance of the year, and
you need to see maybe into the middle of
next year when you get some easing in
the inflationary pressures.
>> It's inevitable that I ask this
question. What is much worse? What does
that look like?
>> Well, right now, if you look at energy
prices and you look at kind of the
futures curve, you're looking at around
$85 oil at the end of the year. That's
the highest it's been all year. If you
were to see that get up close to $100,
that's going to cause it to continue to
push into the end of 2027. And I think
at that point you'll start to see the
Fed need to. Right now, we think they
need to take the easing bias off. By the
time you get to September, if you're
looking at a futures curve that's
pricing $100 oil cuz Middle East
developments have gotten to have
deteriorated, then I think you're going
to be looking at a hike.
>> Are we being too cute about this given
the fact that yields are higher and that
it you're seeing inflation potentially
running at the highest pace going back 3
years when the Fed was in a hiking
cycle? Are we being overly optimistic
about the disinflationary forces and the
ability for consumers to just look at a
very narrow selection of goods and price
increases there?
>> Yeah, I don't think so because I think
if you were to continue to see this kind
of pace of energy price increases, for
example, the demand destruction becomes
that much more acute. So, right now,
you're already seeing some demand
destruction, particularly when you're
talking about lower income households
cuz just of gas prices, etc. That would
really begin to pinch even further. And
then I think you'd see declines in
consumer spending, increases in consumer
delinquencies and defaults. So, the
demand destruction element would, I
think, temper any need for the Fed to
have to react to energy price if they
keep rising at this pace.
>> Are you seeing any demand destruction or
destruction of appetite by investors to
keep lending to tech investors right now
with rates where they are and with some
of the price pressures?
>> Yeah, I would say no, but I think one of
the big reasons that that that occurring
is because most of the very large
hyperscalers are actually also leaning
into the equity market to help support
their balance sheet a bit. So, I think
if you didn't see that, then I think the
appetite in the fixed income market
would not be there, and you would see a
much higher increase in rates, widening
in spreads, etc. But, the fact that
they're being somewhat careful about
their balance sheet strength and using
the equity market to help finance some
of that, I think then the demand on the
fixed income side uh will be there.
>> Steve Sherman brought up a good point in
the earlier hour about how if you were
going to hike rates, it's not going to
stop this AI trade. It's just going to
hurt the lower income individuals across
the country. Do you think that's the
message Kevin Warsh is going to
potentially hint at next week?
>> Well, I think if the question is
directly related to do you hike over AI
spending, he may point to that because
yes, the Fed really can't do anything
about that. Just like the Fed can't
really do anything about what's
happening in the Middle East, right? So,
they are going to try to look through as
far as they possibly can, but at some
point, back to like hey, if a year-end
energy prices are $100 or staying in
those, you know, this $90 range, then
you can no longer look through it as
easily and as rationally.
>> What do you think the dots look like
next Wednesday?
>> What's that?
>> that dot plot look like next Wednesday?
>> That's interesting because you have a
little bit of just responding to the
actual macro developments that have
occurred, and you have a little bit of
what I would think is maybe positioning
in terms of how they want to see
themselves versus what they think
>> Signal.
>> Warsh and signaling where they want to
be. So, I think you're going to see dots
that increase a bit.
>> And Maurice, I'm in the no dot
>> No dot.
>> No dot camp.
>> I'm in the Jackson Pollock camp.
Just throwing paint at the wall and see
what happens.
>> the wall?
>> You lost me for a moment. Now I'm with
[laughter] you.
>> Just like a spray of dots at all
different places and be like figure it
out. It's useless anyway.
>> Tony, it's good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Thank you, sir. Tony
Rodriguez of New York, looking for
inflation to come in with a four handle.
We haven't seen that for 3 years. The
last time the Fed saw that, the Fed
funds, the upper bound, had a five
handle. That's a three handle now.
Things have changed a lot. Coming up
next, we'll catch up with Gagik
Chahinian of BlackRock, Dan Ives of
Wedbush, Tiffany Wilding [music] of
PIMCO, David Kelly of JP Morgan Asset
Management. With inflation on deck, that
data point 34 minutes away.
>> The markets are wagging the economy, not
the other way around.
>> of the opportunity here is really in the
AI compute space.
>> As long as the capital markets remain
open to these really massive market
caps, that's the opportunity.
>> This is really, I think, an
>> earnings-driven story.
>> It could be more choppy this summer, but
we don't think that the bull market in
equities is over.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And your price action of the score looks
like this. We're negative 1% on the S&P
500, down by 1.5% on the Nasdaq. In the
bond market, yields shaping up as
follows. Twos, 10s, and 30s. Yields up
by two basis points on twos, up two on
10s. Your 10-year [music] 4.54 heading
into this 29 minutes away. CPI in
America at 8:30 Eastern Time. We're
looking for a four handle for the first
[music] time in 3 years on headline
inflation in America. And it might get
worse from here if things develop
[music] in the wrong way in the Middle
East. The president earlier on this
morning saying this about Iran. They've
taken too long to negotiate a deal
[music] that would have been great for
them. Now they'll have to pay the price.
The energy market reaction, there isn't
much of one. Up 2% on WTI, still just
south of 90. Brent crude, just below 93.
>> Headline fatigue. At what point are we
people saying we've heard this all
before? Every time a new headline comes
off, we can't change our entire
structure of trading. And there's a lot
of feeling right now that frankly
everyone's being manipulated in
different ways. Without seeing action,
people [music] aren't going to move.
Ultimately, they're looking at the
supply and demand oil barrels that are
going
>> across the fact that this [music] SPRs
around the world are being dragged down
and it isn't having that much of a
ramification.
>> First, we need to say we've been here
before many times with the president in
terms of using rhetoric and then he
actually doesn't follow through with it.
But it does seem to be this morning that
his patience is wearing thin, especially
since [music] just the other night he
told us we could have a peace agreement
in two to three days, not weeks, two to
three days. So now he's saying that Iran
might have to pay the price, they're
taking too long. And [music] he's
telling Fox News that potentially he's
close to ordering new strikes.
>> This wouldn't be defensive in responding
to the Iranians IRGC [music] downing a
US helicopter. This would be fresh
kinetic strikes. So you would think oil
would move higher. It's not at the
moment. And that's because we've been
here before.
>> There's a risk here though that we
conflate the two stories too much. We're
talking about CPI 8:30 Eastern time.
Yes, [music] energy's a factor, a big
factor. But the story has progressed in
the last few months. There's a bigger
focus now, I would suggest, much more so
on the inflation taking place beyond
just energy and what that means for
interest rates. And when you speak to
the people who are calling for tighter
policy from the Federal Reserve, and you
ask them a very basic question, how
dependent [music]
is that call on what happens in the
Middle East? And they say not very
dependent at all. There's much happening
elsewhere.
>> It's AI spending. Henry McVey was saying
that he goes around and talks to all the
portfolio companies and they all say
they're raising prices. They all say
they're able to pass along the increases
in input prices to their customers.
>> [music]
>> I heard that over the past couple of
days from a number of CEOs that profit
margins are expanding faster.
>> Thomas, So you heard it, Breanna?
>> Well,
>> [laughter]
>> in Rio. While I was in Rio,
uh enjoying, you know, the samba and the
beautiful weather. By the way, it's
gorgeous there. It's really nice. I
highly recommend
>> Tell us more, please.
>> [laughter]
>> I did not.
>> Really, it's just the island's volcanic
activity you can see from thousands and
millions of years ago. Anyway, uh it
really gives you a feeling though of
strength, and that's the that's the
feeling that you feel all around.
>> What is the view like from the Bloomberg
office in [music] in Rio?
>> It's I mean, I I literally
>> better than the view in Manhattan?
>> [laughter]
>> I officially That's a That's a big yes.
>> I officially submitted a request for
transfer.
>> chief Does the bureau chief know about
that? No, job swap.
>> Honestly,
>> Job swap.
>> I'll I'll I'll I'll put snacks in the in
the drawers. It's really gorgeous. It's
You know, they they they live well. They
live well there.
>> So do you. Futures right now on the S&P
500. Totally jealous here, not
pretending I'm not. Equity futures on
the S&P down by 0.9%. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Garga
Chaudhuri of BlackRock with markets on
edge. Tiffany Wilding of PIMCO on the
latest breaking inflation data, and
David Kelly of JPMorgan Asset Management
on investing in a diverging economy. We
begin this hour with stocks sliding as
fresh turbulence rocks the tech trade in
the past few days heading into this
week's mega IPO. Garga Chaudhuri of
BlackRock writing, "Stay invested, but
broaden the sources of return beyond the
narrowest part of mega cap leadership."
Garga joins us now for more. Garga, good
morning.
>> Hi, good morning.
>> What's behind the volatility we've seen
in the last few days?
>> Absolutely. So I think it's the trifecta
of bad news that's hit the market.
Obviously, the first came with the
um well, it was good news, but
interpreted as a more hawkish tone from
the Fed with the payroll data last week.
On top of that, this morning, obviously,
we've seen some aggravation on the
geopolitical front. And then lastly,
already there's a little bit of concern
around, um you know, how will the supply
that's coming this week get absorbed in
the market. So you take all of that, and
then you combine that with the
tremendous rally that we saw over the
course of this whole year, but certainly
May, and the very narrow rally, 80% of
the returns of May came from just the
top 10 names. So, when you combine all
of that together, I think it's really
fair to expect to see a pullback. Um I
call it a healthy pullback. I think
earnings are still solid. Um I'm not
worried about it, but there are some
things that the market just needs to get
through.
>> got this really big, fat, nice earnings
cushion supporting demand for equities.
Got that. But now you've got all this
supply. You talked about making space
for it. Do we have enough space for all
this supply?
>> It feels that way. And then, you know,
when we sort of talk to our clients, and
I was on the road last week, I was in
Mexico, not Brazil, but equally lovely.
>> [laughter]
>> But just talking to our wealth and
institutional clients there, as well as
the United States, I think what clients
are very excited about is this idea that
there's all this IPO coming to the
market, which does indicate a
risk-taking environment, which does
indicate to them that this is a good
time to stay invested. Whether or not
it's about this particular or that
particular issuance, that's not what
they're thinking about. What clients are
talking to us about is just ways in
which they can add to durable growers in
their portfolio. Now, having said all of
that, there is a little bit of concern
around how much the market has rallied
over the course of the last month. And I
think, again, this momentum unwind that
we saw even yesterday, when it was very
sharp, very concentrated, I think that's
something that we will get. And on top
of that, you have the rate back up.
>> You're at the forefront of one of the
hottest debates right now on Wall
Street, which is the index composition
as some of these IPOs come to market.
The fact that a number of the indexes
are going to be welcoming them in much
sooner than previously expected. And
then under
this one change, that about 30% of
SpaceX's free float is going to be going
into indexes, versus 4% had the index
characteristics not been changed.
For ETF buyers, how much do you think
they're prepared for this? How much does
this expose them?
>> You know, honestly, that's what we've
been trying to do as a team, as an
organization over the last month, just
educate, right? And we're having some
calls today as well inside the market
webinar for our clients, which is just
around as an ETF buyer, here is what you
get when you hold. You get transparency,
you get liquidity, and that's perhaps
one of the reasons that you do want to
hold something in an ETF form because
you know exactly what your underlying
holding is. And on the flip side, if you
want to have a slightly larger
allocation than you normally
might get from an index, there are so
many incredible active players
that can get you that similar
allocation, but maybe at a different at
a more nimble, you know, moving around
from one region to another. So, I think
our job here as market participants is
to make sure that our clients understand
that just because this is so hot right
now and we're all talking about it and
it's very exciting time to be alive,
doesn't necessarily mean
that you keep going.
>> [laughter]
>> I think you keep going. You're sitting
next to someone who just got back from
Brazil. Continue, please.
>> think that that is the only, you know,
it's very exciting, but at the same time
recognizing that just because something
is a very hot IPO doesn't mean that in
the one or three months that the returns
are, you know, always as incredible as
the trading on the first day. So,
diversification,
having transparency, and making sure you
understand what your index holds is what
we're trying to educate our clients
about.
>> Torresani's outlook of Apollo put out a
note this morning saying tech dominance
is pushing single stock risk to records.
I mean, how many people realize that
when they buy a Nasdaq ETF, they're
getting a whole lot of space and they're
getting it not necessarily some sort of
allocation to the US economy. Given
that, how much do US economic metrics
matter to the vast majority of equity
investments right now in the US?
>> I mean, they do matter, obviously.
We recognize that when we see
earnings growth come through in the
first quarter. Obviously, we wouldn't
Yes, a lot of that is extremely secular
and related to AI or energy. We know
that. But even outside of that, if we
looked at Q1 versus Q1 of 2025, having
eight of the 11 sectors having such
strong earnings growth and seeing some
signs of broadening out, not in
performance, but in earnings, is related
to this really solid nominal GDP
environment that we're in. And I think
it does matter. Having said that, right
now the themes that we're talking to
clients about and that we're writing
around
are the two durable growers, which is AI
and which is energy security. And then
the other one is focusing on income, and
that's what clients want.
>> You sound so optimistic. Are clients
worried right now?
>> Honestly, clients are I mean, you know,
we do these polling insights that we get
from clients. And what we've seen is
there was a large worry, there was a dip
in client sentiment right around April.
And that's picked back up to where we
were in the January period. So risk
sentiment from our clients are not
exhibiting huge amounts of worry. Even
if you look at ETF flows, obviously if
you look at over the last 2 months,
we've seen incredible amount of inflows
into both US equities as well as fixed
income. There is a tremendous amount of
cash on the sidelines. So I would say
that's another good reason for us to
expect
you know, the market to hold in okay.
Having said all of that, I will caution
that we are primed for pullbacks in
times where we've had very rapid moves
and rates move higher in a very rapid
fashion. Both of those, if they happen,
I think pullbacks can occur. And if they
do, I think it's a healthy opportunity
to buy those durable growers.
>> What's the bond market call? You're
giving us the equity call. What's the
bond market fit in because the big risk
people were worried about a repeat of
22.
>> Absolutely. So I want to be very clear
that this is not a repeat of 2022.
This is an environment where you have
supply driven shocks. And that's very
different from 2022 when rates were at
zero and you had to move them up very
quickly. I think it's more and more
apparent that we're not going to get a
rate cut anytime soon and I think that's
a realization that that we have
obviously all agreed upon, but I also
don't think that we're going to hike
very quickly either because again, this
is a supply driven energy shock and
there's really no reason to believe that
a rate hike is actually going to help
consumers at this point of time. So bond
market call, I think you know, 10 years
probably stay around here and you can
get some really attractive entry points
to clip some coupon and we're actually
seeing that in the fixed income ETF
flows best month ever in May.
>> Mexico City.
>> Nice Four Seasons.
>> Chapultepec Park. Let's go running.
>> Okay, that's cool. [laughter]
And that well, Guy Adami, thank you. Guy
Adami there at BlackRock. Equity futures
right now in the S&P down by 0.9% with
an update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg Brief. Bonnie Gwin has more.
Hey Bonnie.
>> Hey John, thank you. President Donald
Trump telling Fox News he's close to
ordering new strikes on Iran. [music]
The warning coming after Trump posted on
Truth Social, Iran will quote "pay the
price for taking too long to negotiate a
peace deal." [music]
Super Micro is plunging in the
premarket. The AI server maker joining
the race for cash with plans to raise $7
billion through a package of equity
offerings. The proceeds will be used to
further fuel spending and fulfill
customer orders.
Game four of the NBA finals between the
New York Knicks and the San Antonio
Spurs tipping off tonight at 8:30
Eastern. The Knicks holding [music] a
two-to-one lead in the series. Tonight's
game will be played at New York's
Madison Square Garden. The Knicks
looking [music] for their first
championship in more than 50 years.
And that is your Bloomberg Brief, John.
>> Hey Bonnie, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next on the program, the
Morning Call plus Dan Ives of Wedbush as
SpaceX draws record demand ahead of its
IPO. That conversation just around the
corner. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
>> A lot of non-fundamental factors that
are going to interfere with markets and
cause volatility over the summer. People
need to make room in their portfolios
for all the equity capital that's being
raised including SpaceX. [music] We
still sit in what is at worst the middle
of the biggest infrastructure build-out
[music] since the railroads. If we see
volatility on some of these
non-fundamental factors, we're likely to
buy it.
>> I must say Chevron a Fed rate hit
constructive on this equity market with
these pullbacks. We're down by .8 on the
S&P. On the Nasdaq we're negative close
to 1.5 going into the opening bell. 1
hour and 15 minutes away. That's the
price action. Let's get you some morning
[music] calls. First up Barclays raising
its price target on Datadog to 260
saying its product velocity will
continue to drive its leading position.
Elsewhere Bank [music] of America
upgrading STMicroelectronics to buy
saying the market is underestimating the
chip makers earnings [music] power. And
finally BTIG boosting its target on
Cloudflare to 269 saying underlying
enterprise momentum remains [music]
strong and yet still that stock is down
by close to 2%. Let's talk about SpaceX
already shattering records ahead of a
historic IPO lining up over a quarter
trillion dollars in investor demand as
its market debut fast approaches.
Bloomberg's Ed Ludlow joins us now for
more. Ed, what do we know ahead of this
one?
>> Yeah, the state of play is that it is
many multiple times oversubscribed.
There's actually something happening in
the background which is there is a
roadshow and the book will close for
institutional investors at 4:00 p.m.
Eastern time this evening. What we know
is that the allocations are going to
very heavily favor long only asset
managers and that there are several
institutional entities that have
submitted orders for $10 billion worth
of shares. By the way, if you are one of
those institutions and you have
submitted an order in, please telephone
me and tell me what's going on. But,
this is interesting because SpaceX kind
of pre-priced its IPO at $135
ahead of the roadshow. There wasn't some
sort of traditional range. And the
question as it relates to the rest of
the year when we have an Anthropic and
potentially also an OpenAI
IPO, is what is the story that's being
told by the bankers and SpaceX to
potential investors in the interim? Yes,
they're oversubscribed, which would
justify the initial valuation. And our
reporting suggests that actually there's
a big focus on this data center in space
story. SpaceX telling the pool that
basically whatever was in the
prospectus, they could start doing
orbital tests sooner. Maybe 2027, maybe
2028. So, there's a lot to happen in the
next 48 hours mechanically. Um, but one
thing I think is really important for
the surveillance audiences is, um, take
a look at the rest of the month of June.
There will be a big, you know, passive,
uh,
issue with the rapid inclusion into the
Nasdaq Russell 1000, but also like
there's a lot that can drive volatility
and and as a catalyst in this market.
So, uh, buckle in, John.
>> I'm looking forward to your coverage,
John. It's great to have you here in New
York and let low covering that story
over the next several days. I'm always a
little bit wary of numbers about things
being oversubscribed because this is one
of those instances, just like the debt
market that you've covered for years,
Pramo, where you ask for more than you
think you'll actually get just to make
sure that you get some.
>> People are trying to front-run the index
inclusion, also. Just keep that in mind.
A lot of this is baking in the inherent
demand that comes from the rapid
inclusion of the Nasdaq and other
indexes. And so, at a certain point,
does this indicate desire for SpaceX or
desire for a trade that doesn't really
indicate longer-term demand?
>> Dan Ives of Wedbush writes in the
following, while there will be some
worries that the mammoth SpaceX will
take away some oxygen from the tech semi
trade. This will be a short-term bump in
the road. Dan joins us now for more.
Dan, good morning.
>> Great to be here.
>> The appetite for this IPO, I think Lisa
makes a fantastic point. A lot of people
are talking about the same thing. Just
trying to get ahead of the index
inclusion, aren't they?
>> Look, I think that that's definitely a
play. And I think to say it's not would
be wrong because of just the unique
situation here from the index coming out
of the gates. But look, at the end of
the day, it does come down to it's
viewed as a derivative of the AI
revolution in terms of like how you're
going to play space,
data, AI. And look, this is it's it's a
test for the market in terms of not just
SpaceX, but the ripple effect across the
rest of tech. And I think that's what
you're seeing and you're starting last
week in terms of the sell-off that we've
seen in semis, I think it's playing in
the just it's a little white-knuckle
moment that we're going through in tech
just to see how this is out the
reception ultimately is going to be.
>> But it's not just this. It's pushed back
to equity capital raises elsewhere. The
report of maybe Meta doing the same
thing. We've had another player this
morning suggest they're going to do the
same thing, push back in the equity
market. Do we have the space for these
names?
>> Look, I I believe you do. And I think
even if you look like Google after they
did the offering, the the view that you
were going to have a big sell-off, but
instead I think actually took it, you
know, pretty well in terms of the stock.
Look, you it's $4 trillion that's going
to be spent over the coming years. This
is an arms race playing out. I don't
care whether it's SpaceX, Anthropic,
OpenAI in terms of the capital raise
that we're seeing. And I think these
companies understand the demand's there.
The difference is if we go back 6 months
ago, it's like show the monetization, is
CapEx going to accelerate? It's
happening. And I think now that there's
more of a green light, I think that
should just give further confidence. I
think investors now are able to see
around the corner because we just saw
like this weekend like our Taiwan checks
like further just tighter supply, which
is just more bullish for chips, more
bullish for what we see, you know,
across semis and and obviously across
memory.
>> That said, I mean, a lot of people can
buy into the story and say this truly is
a revolution, but say that the pricing
is already pretty full, especially
because as the supply becomes
constrained, people are paying more and
more for it and they're raising debt
that they have to pay back later with
future revenues that go to that. At what
point do you see that as as having a
viable argument?
>> Yeah, look, it all comes down to like
monetization on the use cases, not just
on the enterprise, but on the consumer
side because look,
you build it, will they come? So now
it's all built, you see the demand
there, but now it comes down to the next
phase and you got to see in earnings.
The big thing that the big reason we saw
the rally we had that we have, it goes
back to like obviously negative
sentiment March, but then we go through
earnings in April and May, I mean, those
were, you know, I think Jalen
Brunson-like in terms of what we saw in
terms of numbers. Now it comes down to
it's setting up for what I believe is
going to be earnings over the coming
quarters that will further support tech
stocks. You know, we continue to think
Nasdaq 30,000 next 6 months.
>> You talk about the consumer-facing side,
you have to see it there. Does that mean
that you like Chinese tech stocks better
than the US that's catering more to
corporate?
>> Look, I but it's also why I like in
Cupertino what Apple's doing now, the
start of at least having an adequate AI
strategy because on the consumer side,
it will come and go through app. I
continue to view them as a total
collector on the on the on the AI
highway. Look in China, robotics is
where they're winning. And I think you
cannot just view this market, it's not
just US. China, there's going to be a
lot of winners and we continue to view
Alibaba and some others in terms of big
tech in China and where that continues
to really be I think just starting the
next phase.
>> Dan, speaking of China, what do you make
of the US looking at potentially
nationalizing parts of these companies,
similar to what China does?
>> Look, it's it's a balancing act and I
think it speaks to like you're not going
to see any sort of like what I would
like nationalization because the reality
there is that it further I think stumps
from a regulatory perspective. But
>> But you do think we're going to see this
or not?
>> So I don't [clears throat] think in the
US you're going to see nationalization,
but I do think you will see stakes just
like Intel.
>> Well, how's that not nationalization?
>> Look, I think that's you know, the the
problem is is that a big part of where
Intel is today, it's because of the
investment that you saw from Trump
administration. Then it comes down to
like was that the right move? I'd argue
in that situation, I think it was the
right move cuz you can't have Intel
basically being Blockbuster Video of the
of tech.
But I think selectively they're going to
take stakes in different companies
because look, it is true like in what's
happening in China, that is an arms
>> talk about what we're buying. What
happens to demand for the products that
Open AI and Anthropic are distributing
right now when they start charging what
it actually costs. What happens to
demand and what have we seen already
happen in C-suites around this country?
>> Look, I think you're going to you're
going to have to see the cost of
tokenization continue to go down. You
will see limits in terms of you know,
what we've seen in caps in some
companies, but I think it's also going
to come down to like
as companies monetize that and as they
know that those dollars are being spent
for revenue that's accelerating within
these companies, that's where all of a
sudden the two charts start to cross.
>> Where do you see revenue acceleration
because of AI adoption? Where do you see
that right now?
>> Well, I think it's it's already started
happening the data layer. I mean, if you
look at Snowflake, you look at Data Dog,
you look at Inter Data. So we just
started off it was just chips. Now data
layer.
Then it's going to be software. Oracle
obviously is going to be key in terms of
what we see from them. Hyperscalers I
continue to think are not being factored
in terms of the true monetization like a
Microsoft being
>> Which a good example.
>> Microsoft and who else?
>> Look, I think I mean if I look at go
back to like what's happened in Google
and a year ago, New York City cab
drivers bearish on Alphabet. Now what
they're monetizing on hyper scalar, on
search, on Gemini, narratives are very
easy where there was change and I just
think I continue think this is third
inning, one out relative to the AI.
>> more confident on that Nasdaq call or
the next guy in this game four?
>> Well, I can do that I I think Knicks
game four but ultimately you think
Knicks in five.
Nasdaq 30,000.
>> San Antonio. They win in Texas.
>> I think they win in San Antonio.
>> Okay.
>> Maybe we should go.
>> You going?
>> We
Never know.
>> Okay. Considering it.
>> Considering it.
>> Okay. Then after Wedbush, Dan, thank
you, buddy. It's good to see you.
Massive event taking place later this
week. A Mecca, record-breaking IPO from
SpaceX.
>> I thought you were going to talk about
the next game. I wasn't sure where you
were going to go with that.
>> Same.
>> Uh you know,
the the key is and I think the
monetization points are really
interesting one. The areas that have
monetized this the best are the ones
that are starting to see some of the job
justification as well. I'm talking about
the financial sector, the software
sector, data center center, programming
centers. That's the forward [music]
edge. So how much does monetization come
at the expense of other areas?
>> Futures right now -0.8% up. Next on the
program, inflation data in America.
We're looking for a full handle on CPI,
something we haven't seen in 3 years.
Tiffany Wilding of PIMCO
>> [music]
>> is here to react. That conversation just
around the corner.
Inflation data [music] just seconds
away. Going into it, equity futures
declining. Tech jitters return. We're
down by 3/4 of 1% on the S&P. On [music]
the Nasdaq, we're down by 1.2% in the
bond market. Two's just off the highs of
the year. We're up a single basis
[music] point 413 on a two-year yield on
10s, up around a single basis points to
452. We're looking for a four-handle on
CPI this morning with the economic data.
Mike [music] McKee has more. Good
morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John, and we have a
four-handle. 4.2% is the inflation rate
for the last 12 months in the headline
CPI. That's exactly what was
anticipated.
The month-over-month for the headline is
up half a percent as anticipated. For
the core, it is a 2/10 gain, and for the
year-over-year number, it is 2.9%.
So, the economist survey is bang on what
was expected for the total month. Now,
we can look at the numbers overall and
see that for goods and services, now
this is the uh
the kind of breakdown the Fed's going to
be looking at.
Goods prices were down
a 10th of a percent if you take out food
and energy, and service prices were up
3/10. I'll look for additional
breakdowns of where the price action is,
and I guess uh
I'm I'm guessing we'd We're Well, I'm
seeing on the screen, John, that we're
having a maybe a little more market
reaction
to an exact hit for economists than I
might have expected.
>> Mike, sometimes a meet is a beat. It's
better than expected. We had some very
hawkish expectations going into next
week. I can tell you the core CPI
month-over-month, it was a very small
downside surprise, but a downside
surprise nevertheless. It came in at
0.2% against an estimate in our survey
of 0.3. If you take this and push it
into the market, to Mike's point, you do
see a spike in equities just off the
lows on the S&P 500, on the Nasdaq, on
the Russell this morning. Equities
shaping up as follows on the S&P 500
down just 7/10 of 1%. It was down a
little bit more than that going into the
print. We turn to the bond market now
and check out yields. Yields were
pushing just a little bit higher at the
front end of the curve by a few basis
points earlier on this morning. Now,
just about unchanged at 4.1224.
So, inflation not as hot as expected
looking at core CPI month-over-month, in
line with expectations basically
everywhere else going into this meeting
a week today at the Federal Reserve.
>> It took off the worst-case scenario,
which was an upside beat that would
really raise the heat for the Federal
Reserve. And also, I will point out
something else that people have
mentioned is that earnings are earnings
are not keeping pace. At least the
earnings of individuals Maybe the
earnings of companies are, but not the
earnings of individuals. That declined
0.7% when you take a look at the real
metric
in this latest reading versus -0.3%
in the previous one. So, with respect to
spending power, this does diminish the
spending power based on wages and the
wage gain that's not exactly keeping
pace with inflation.
>> Mike, we'll give you a second and third
look. Give it us a second look at this
data this morning. Where's the little
pop coming from? Is it more than just
energy?
>> It did look like it's a whole lot more
than just energy. We saw gasoline prices
up by 7/10 of a percent,
uh, and that is a significant I'm sorry,
by 7%.
Uh, which makes more sense. And that's
up from last month. So, we're seeing a
big increase in gasoline prices, but
most everything else is up slightly, not
up a huge amount. I'll continue looking
through this, but things like apparel up
3/10,
very similar to last month. Medical care
services were up half a percent. Now,
that's a big move up. So, that's
something to keep an eye on. It was flat
the month before, but we'll keep looking
through the rest of this. I can tell you
very quickly that used cars and trucks
contributed absolutely nothing to this.
Remember when we used to watch them very
closely.
>> Uh, no no big deal from, uh, them.
>> We'll come back to you, Mike, in just a
moment. Brahma, what do you say?
>> One interesting note is that rent of
primary residence has ticked up just a
bit. So, you actually do see in this the
idea that maybe people are paying a
little bit more for some of the areas
that have been disinflationary, which is
notable. Other than that, I mean, the
other issue is electricity. The fact
that it still is rising at about 6% 5.9%
clip. I mean, this is going to become a
political issue, but it's, you know,
yes, this is a story about oil prices,
but this is also very much a story about
artificial intelligence and data
centers.
>> Without a doubt. Joining us now to
discuss Tiffany Wilding of PIMCO.
Tiffany, welcome to the program. "Full
handle on inflation, what to
anticipate." Haven't seen that for 3
years. Tiffany, can this Fed look
through this?
>> Yeah, I think the key question right now
is, you know, is is inflation elevated
as a result of of negative supply shocks
or a positive demand in the economy
that's lifting inflation. And clearly
what you're seeing from the headline
story when the higher energy prices is
is is that is being driven by you know,
the negative supply shocks that we're
seeing coming out of the Middle East and
and high gasoline prices as a result.
You know, now if we look at core, you
know, I think that you know, there's a
there's more of a question there and I
think that's why you're starting to see
some Fed officials that are talking up
talking about interest rate hikes. You
know, but at the same time we know that
we've had some pass-through of tariff
higher higher costs as a result of
tariffs
and you have the AI story as well, which
is has been bleeding over into inflation
a bit. So, there's some supply shocks
on on that side as well. They're kind of
one-off things.
You know, and and we think outside of
that, you know, core inflation in the US
still looks like you know, it's on a
trajectory that you know, that that
eventually should be okay for the Fed.
Now again, we'll we'll get some of the
energy that is bleeding into
the core airfares elevated and things
like that. You know, but ultimately we
do think they have room here
to look through and and wait and see how
this plays out.
>> Tiffany, we've heard that for 5 years
and inflation has been above target for
5 years and the incoming Fed chair, in
his own words, said inflation is a
choice. Do they need to do something,
Kat, just to anchor credibility?
>> Yeah, I mean, well, so as of right now,
you know, if you look at a range of
estimates for inflation expectations,
you know, they they look pretty well
anchored. You know, the markets
certainly are giving the Fed a lot of
credibility. And if you look across the
surveys, you know, we would argue the
surveys, you know, look pretty well
anchored as well. Of course, one-year
inflation expectations from various
surveys have gone up, but they they
always sort of tend to lag inflationary
pressures.
You know, so I I think they again, the
Fed has some room here to take a look
and see and see what's going on. You
know, the other thing about negative
supply shocks is, you know, it's kind of
a it's a more difficult or tricky choice
in terms of the dual mandate. So
although it's putting upward pressure on
inflation, it's it's putting downward
pressure on activity, potentially some
upward pressure on the unemployment
rate. So they're going to absolutely
weigh that piece of this as well.
We do think at the next FOMC meeting
that they will drop the forward guidance
most likely. There was, you know, the
so-called easing bias in the language in
the statement. If you sort of squinted,
maybe you could see that.
And and it's a nuance we think they
probably will drop just a signal you
know, that there are more two-sided
risks here. But at the end of the day,
we think the Fed is you know, is going
to be careful, you know, not to
overreact to what could be supply shocks
that are pushing up inflation and and
could be temporary.
>> Tiffany, when did they move their target
to 3% rather than 2%?
>> Well, certainly that's a you know, that
will be a question for for the new Fed
chair, Warsh, when he gets in there. As
as we heard from from Powell, he said
that he was not going to change the
inflation target during his tenure.
You know, they just had a review of
their long-term strategy
that you know, that they that they
discussed last fall and in that in that
longer-term review, they you know, they
sort of move the asymmetric language in
terms of how they're thinking about
inflation out and now you're you're kind
of back to just a
you know, inflation targeting flexible
inflation targeting central bank type of
strategy. You know, so at all of that
sort of signals to us that they're not
going to move their inflation target of
2% officially. You know, now having said
that though,
you know, in terms of of Fed strategy,
you know, we can we can kind of think of
it like the you know, the 90s strategy,
the opportunistic disinflation strategy
where you know, we've had a series of
supply shocks that keeps inflation
slightly above target and the Fed sort
of knows at some point, you know, we
could fall into recession. We all hope
that we don't, but in that case we'll
have below target inflation.
You know, and so you know, they don't
really want to overreact to get
inflation to target now just given the
cost of higher unemployment that that
could result. So some tolerance for
above target inflation for a little bit,
you know, knowing that at some point you
probably will you know, get some of
those recessionary forces that bring it
below.
>> I don't envy the Fed right now, Tiffany.
I mean, there are all these geopolitical
choke points that are creating a series
of sequential supply side shocks that on
one hand you could say they want to look
through. On the other hand, there is a
secular overlay of what we're seeing
with artificial intelligence and this
incredible demand for assets of all
types and it seems to be a price
inelastic. I'm just wondering from your
vantage point, how you view that in the
inflation story. Should that be
concerning given the fact that
electricity is rising at about 6%
year-over-year
when it comes to just the inflationary
pressures?
>> Yeah, I mean, I so I think that's the
tricky thing as well, right? I mean,
there there is certainly a piece of this
that is demand related. You know, and
again, the the Federal Reserve monetary
policy more generally you know, has has
more of an ability to impact demand. You
know, and they also want to try to
understand you know, how you know, how
persistent is is this demand impulse
going to be?
You know, and and certainly the AI
demand impulses is absolutely there. And
and we've seen it accelerate at the
beginning of this year you know,
coinciding with the you know, the Iran
events.
You know, so I think that's certainly
something they're going to way and we're
seeing the prices of components related
to the infrastructure buildout really
skyrocket and that is spilling over into
into the price components of those
into the consumer price components of in
those categories. That's impacting PCE
more than CPI not to get too wonky, but
the PCE is their preferred measure.
Yeah, I mean so there's definitely you
know, some demand driven inflationary
pressures here, but but we've been
talking about this two-speed economy for
quite some time and you there's
certainly another part of the economy
outside of AI
and and maybe outside of the you know,
top 20% of households that hold you
know, a lot of their wealth in stocks
you know, that isn't doing as well as a
result of these economic fundamentals.
So you know, there the labor market for
example does not look like a source of
inflationary pressures at the moment.
You know, so the Fed has to weigh all of
these factors. You know, and again, what
monetary policy theory would suggest
when there's a lot of uncertainty is you
go slow and you wait and see. And again,
we think as of right now that means you
know, they they are on hold for for the
next little bit.
>> Tiffany, appreciate your time. As always
it's good to see you. Tiffany Wilding
there of PIMCO reacting to the latest
inflation data. I remember Governor King
at the Bank of England looking through
inflation coming out of GFC. There was a
decent argument for it. I understood it
at the time.
>> [snorts]
>> These shocks keep coming
and we've now had inflation above target
for 5 years.
Maybe this argument was a little bit
more comfortable to make when inflation
was around 2 and 1/2.
Maybe pushing three, but three, four,
I'd say it's increasingly getting more
uncomfortable for this Federal Reserve.
>> When we were coming out of the financial
crisis, we didn't have volatility in
inflation. It was either going up or it
was going down. It wasn't going up and
down and up and down and up and down.
And how does the Fed deal with
volatility in inflation with consumers
that are primed to prices that aren't
exactly fixed and that are moving around
quite a bit?
>> Mike, are you still tracking the data? I
promised Mike a third look. This is the
third look. Mike, what do you see?
>> Third up here. As I mentioned, goods and
services,
goods prices are flat for the month.
Service prices up 3/10. And then we look
at some of the categories here. Gasoline
was up, as I said, 7%. That was a big
one.
And apparel up by
just
3/10 of a percent. Rent
of shelter up by 4/10, but OER up by
3/10. It was five the month before. So
that's less of a drag on inflation.
Airline fares 2.7%. That's one of the
bigger ones that moved. But here's
another one that's kind of interesting.
Last month, tomato prices were up 15.1%.
This month, they fell by 6.1%. We're
seeing some giveback to some categories
that we saw
in the last big
report. And it is
kind of interesting to see same thing
happening with computers and software up
2/10 of a percent. They were up 5% the
month before. So some of the changes
here are suggesting maybe a kind of
change in pattern that we're going to
get. But one thing that will worry the
Fed, bottom line is you look at a
three-month annualized rate and we're at
8% up from 7%. So inflation's still
overall going in the wrong direction.
>> Mike, thank you, buddy. It's interesting
you get a bigger bounce in the equity
market than you do in the bond market
off the back of this, too. It's just
about unchanged on the session. They
were higher by a few basis points. Check
out the equity market, taking out about
half the losses this morning. We're
still down 0.4%
>> The risk scenario for a lot of people is
if the Fed does start to be hostile to
the equity market. That's the phrasing
that we've gotten from people. If they
signal a rate hike, that could curtail
some of the enthusiasm, curb the
enthusiasm in markets, and that is not
what they want to see.
>> It's hard to put pressure on this
institution to reduce interest rates
with inflation of four.
Which speaks to why the Treasury
Secretary more recently has given the
incoming Fed chair a little bit of
space. How much space the president will
will be willing to give Kevin Warsh in
the next few months? It's going to be an
interesting summer.
>> I'm not sure because when we said to the
president over the weekend, well, the
market is pricing in a hike, he pretty
much was like, well, I want to see a
cut. And that was it. And maybe he's
going to let Kevin Warsh, his pick, have
a little bit more of an easy ride his
first meeting or two, but then
potentially it might become challenging,
especially if you have more rhetoric
from individuals on the Fed saying that
they want to stamped out inflation.
>> We should do pay-per-view next
Wednesday. Box office. Kevin Warsh is
just around the corner. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Bonnie Quinn
has more. Hey, Bonnie.
>> Hey, John. Recapping the inflation data
we just got.
>> [music]
>> May CPI data meeting Bloomberg survey
estimates. The headline number jumping
4.2% year-over-year. It's the first time
CPI has crossed 4% in 3 years as the war
in Iran continues to weigh on fuel and
food costs.
President Donald Trump out with a new
warning for Iran telling Fox he's close
to ordering new strikes. The president
posting on Truth Social, Iran paid the
price for taking too long to negotiate a
peace deal.
Global investors awaiting Friday's
historic SpaceX IPO. Gulf wealth funds
are putting in orders for shares worth
several billions of dollars in the IPO
we're told. [music]
Saudi Arabia's public investment fund
and the Kuwait Investment Authority have
each placed orders for shares worth
between a billion and five billion
dollars.
And that's your Bloomberg [music] brief,
John.
>> Bonnie, thank you. That's a bit of a
flex.
Things are tight at the moment in that
region. I think that's a bit of a flex
going into this IPO.
>> Yeah, I think what they're saying is
they're tighter, but they're not that
tight. We're still able to make sure we
can get in on massive opportunities even
though we're dealing [music] with the
conflict in the region.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with David Kelly of JP Morgan Asset
Management on the risks markets may be
overlooking. Plus, Yuhaira has your
morning movers. Freight stocks falling
as Amazon expands its own shipping
service. That story is just around the
corner.
>> Clearly, what you're seeing from the
headline story that is being driven
[music] by um you know, the negative
supply shocks that we're seeing coming
out of the Middle East. Core inflation
in the US still looks like um you know,
it's on a trajectory that um you know,
that that eventually should be okay for
the Fed. We do think they have room here
uh to look through and um and wait and
see how this plays out.
>> Tiffany Wilding, Pimco. [music] Headline
inflation 4.2% as expected, the highest
in some 3 years. Haven't seen a four
handle since 2023. [music]
Core CPI month-over-month just a touch
softer than expected in a 0.2%. The
survey our survey [music] the median
estimate 0.3%. With that, equities are
erasing losses going into the opening
bell about 41 minutes away. Equity
futures negative just 0.4% on the S&P.
[music] On the Nasdaq, we're down by
0.65.
Let's get you some morning movers, some
single names. [music] Yuhaira has more.
Hey, Yuhaira.
>> Hey, John. We are seeing the freight
stocks under pressure. An announcement
from Amazon that it's expanding its
less-than-truckload [music] shipping
business to all customers, not just
those shipping Amazon products. So,
you're seeing names [music] like Saia,
FedEx Freight, and Old Dominion all
falling in the premarket since [music]
this puts Amazon in more direct
competition with them and highlights its
growing presence in the freight market.
Meanwhile, we're also seeing Supermicro
shares falling uh some 12% in the
premarket as it joins the party to raise
capital announcing a $7 billion equity
raise. [music] The company's up sales
for the company's AI servers have
surged, but that just means it [music]
needs more money about $39 billion worth
in order to fulfill customer orders. And
we end on the next big test for that AI
trade which is Oracle. It is trimming
its earlier losses now just [music] down
1 and 1/2% and looking through analyst
notes the big focus will be on whether
Oracle is building data centers fast
[music] enough and converting that those
AI bookings into actual revenue at a
time we know demand is [music] through
the roof. John.
>> Yohana, thank you. Looking forward to
that report a little bit later. Joining
us around the table following that
inflation data, David Kelly [music] of
JP Morgan Asset Management. David, good
morning.
>> Glad to be here.
>> How uncomfortable are things for this
Federal Reserve next week?
>> Um somewhat uncomfortable, but I I think
essentially we're going to get a 12-0
vote to do nothing. The safest thing the
Federal Reserve can do politically and
also economically I think is just to do
nothing here.
Inflation is higher than they than they
than they want, but I think there's a
good chance that that this month May
will actually turn out to be the high
water mark for inflation in this cycle.
Uh we have seen gasoline prices come
down pretty significantly in June. I
think June will see a lower
year-over-year rate and if if we come to
some settlement which allows oil come
out of the straight of warm moves, then
inflation will gradually drift down. So
it's it's not nice seeing a four handle.
There certainly is no excuse for for
easing at this point, but I think the
Fed can sit pat.
>> How much of it is out of their control
at the moment?
>> Oh, complete it's completely out of
their control. Well, first of all, they
don't really control inflation that much
with interest rates anyway. I mean,
let's be honest about this. We've seen
nothing in the last honestly few decades
which suggests the Federal Reserve can
actually speed up economic growth by
cutting rates or slow economic growth by
raising them. There's very little
evidence that even works Uh and in this
case it's it's about energy.
>> Does the new chairman agree with you?
>> We'll see. I think he's he's a very
intelligent guy and he he I think there
was a certain amount of complexity in
some of his answers to to to questions
on inflation. I don't think that he is I
don't think he has any intention of
leading a charge to cut interest rates
when you've got the inflation rate
basically at the unemployment rate
target. I mean it's their target is
supposed to be 4.2% on the unemployment
rate we're 4.2% on inflation
that's double you know almost even in
PCE terms it's essentially double where
they want to be.
>> The one thing that the Fed does have
some influence over is financial
conditions and this is the reason why
maybe you're seeing a stock market rally
a bit more respond more to this print
than the bond market. At what point do
they have to take that into
consideration given the amount of debt
and equity being raised right now?
>> Well again there's very little the
problem is that they that yes raising
interest rates sharply would perhaps
calm down some of the speculation maybe
cause a correction in markets which
might actually be a healthy thing. But
it's it's such a you know it's taking a
sledgehammer to a fly. I mean they will
do a lot of economic damage if they do
that also and so they have to
they I think they they should be worried
about too much speculation don't think
there's much they can do about it.
>> Sledgehammer to a fly that said some
people are saying that you have
companies raising more and more money to
pay for prices that are going up and up
and up. At what point is that directly
fueling inflation in the areas of the
Fed doesn't ostensibly have control over
but comes with the enthusiasm in capital
markets?
>> Well the the inflation the Federal
Reserve should honestly worry about is
inflation things like in things like
food clothing energy the basics. I mean
if the cost of compute goes up I mean
that that's not great if you're if
you're a big tech company but it doesn't
really affect the average person that
much. So I think they've got to look at
broad broader inflation. There's not
much they can do about it is is really
is much more over on side of Washington
that these decisions have been made.
Now, there are things the federal
government ought to do to try and calm
speculation financial markets.
Perhaps
you know, both in terms of AI
regulation, crypto regulation. There are
things they can do, but I don't think
there's very much the Federal Reserve
can do right now to get to calm this
down.
>> David, if you think this is the peak,
that's predicated on you think there's
going to be a deal.
Because we're getting to levels that are
very low on inventories and tanks. So,
most people actually are saying in the
commodity market, if there's no deal,
prices could surge from here.
>> I That is our biggest concern. The
biggest concern is that people will take
some sort of comfort in the fact that
gasoline prices have come down in the
last few weeks because that's because of
a massive release of inventory,
including from the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve, which is down 60 million
barrels in the space of a few months.
We can't do this forever. And and I hope
the administration is not taking a
signal from the lack of gas inflation
that this is somehow a an equilibrium.
It's not, and you're quite right. But
eventually, if gasoline prices started
going up again, we were moving closer
closer to the mid-term elections, I
expect that the issue of nuclear and the
issue of Hormuz will be separated. And
once that happens, and you actually
negotiate honestly about trying to get
stuff in and out of Hormuz, then then a
deal will be made.
>> Massive helping hand from China, too,
importing less. SocGen wrote about this
earlier this week. The refiners reducing
demand as well. That's really helped
this energy market.
>> but that but that's it's not like they
didn't stop moving. It's obviously an
inventory draw.
>> Oh, no doubt it. That's what I'm getting
at.
>> And again, because these are all these
offsets that have made this a lot The
point is, the world uses 100 million
barrels of oil a day. You can't take 20
million barrels out of that equation and
expect it to be equilibrium. We're we
Oil is an unusual commodity in in that
we have massive quantities of inventory.
Everybody's had a Strategic Petroleum
Reserve. So, we've got to actually take
this hit for a number of months because
people realize this vulnerability. That
gets you a month, two months, three
months. It doesn't get you six months.
It doesn't get you a year.
And so, at some stage a solution has to
be found.
>> David, it's good to see you. It always
is. Thank you, buddy." David Kelly there
of JP Morgan Asset Management. Inflation
with a four handle.
>> Yeah, let's just put that in a
perspective. This is the hottest
headline rate [music] going back to
2023. Inflation moving in the wrong
direction for the Federal Reserve.
>> Uncomfortable for the new Fed chair.
Coming up tomorrow, Ken Emmanuel of
Evercore, Francis Donald of RBC, [music]
Savita Subramanian. She says there's red
flags out there. Take profits. She joins
us from Bank of America tomorrow
alongside Nela Richardson of ADP. From
New York City this morning, good
morning. This [music] was Bloomberg
Markets.